                                         Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




                                         A NALOG G ENIE : A G ENERATIVE E NGINE FOR AUTO -
                                         MATIC D ISCOVERY OF A NALOG C IRCUIT T OPOLOGIES

                                          Jian Gao1 , Weidong Cao2 , Junyi Yang1 , Xuan Zhang1
                                          1
                                            Northeastern University, 2 The George Washington University
                                          {gao.jian3,yang.juny,xuan.zhang}@northeastern.edu
                                          {weidong.cao}@gwu.edu



                                                                                      A BSTRACT
arXiv:2503.00205v1 [cs.LG] 28 Feb 2025




                                                  The massive and large-scale design of foundational semiconductor integrated cir-
                                                  cuits (ICs) is crucial to sustaining the advancement of many emerging and fu-
                                                  ture technologies, such as generative AI, 5G/6G, and quantum computing. Ex-
                                                  citingly, recent studies have shown the great capabilities of foundational mod-
                                                  els in expediting the design of digital ICs. Yet, applying generative AI tech-
                                                  niques to accelerate the design of analog ICs remains a significant challenge due
                                                  to critical domain-specific issues, such as the lack of a comprehensive dataset
                                                  and effective representation methods for analog circuits. This paper proposes,
                                                  AnalogGenie, a Generative engine for automatic design/discovery of Analog cir-
                                                  cuit topologies–the most challenging and creative task in the conventional man-
                                                  ual design flow of analog ICs. AnalogGenie addresses two key gaps in the
                                                  field: building a foundational comprehensive dataset of analog circuit topology
                                                  and developing a scalable sequence-based graph representation universal to ana-
                                                  log circuits. Experimental results show the remarkable generation performance
                                                  of AnalogGenie in broadening the variety of analog ICs, increasing the num-
                                                  ber of devices within a single design, and discovering unseen circuit topolo-
                                                  gies far beyond any prior arts. Our work paves the way to transform the long-
                                                  standing time-consuming manual design flow of analog ICs to an automatic
                                                  and massive manner powered by generative AI. Our source code is available at
                                                  https://github.com/xz-group/AnalogGenie.


                                         1    I NTRODUCTION
                                         Semiconductor integrated circuits (ICs) are the foundational hardware cornerstone to advance many
                                         emerging technologies such as generative AI, 5G/6G, and quantum computing. The demand for
                                         and the scale of ICs are soaring to unprecedented levels with the ever-increasing information and
                                         computing workloads (e.g., training foundation models with billions of parameters) (Achiam et al.,
                                         2023). Thus, accelerating the design of advanced ICs is a key to sustaining the development of future
                                         technologies. Excitingly, recent breakthroughs in generative AI have presented transformative op-
                                         portunities to expedite the conventional design flows of ICs. Domain-specific large language models
                                         (LLMs) have been developed to free human designers by automatically generating and correcting
                                         Hardware Description Languages (HDL) (Zhong et al., 2023; Blocklove et al., 2023; Chang et al.,
                                         2023; Thakur et al., 2024; 2023; Fu et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023b; Wu et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2023a),
                                         which can be seamlessly used to synthesize digital ICs with desired functionalities. As an example,
                                         NVIDIA’s ChipNeMo (Liu et al., 2023a), a powerful domain-adapted LLM, can rapidly generate
                                         valuable digital designs with just a few prompts. Yet, applying generative AI to speed up the de-
                                         sign of analog ICs–essential in ubiquitous electronic systems to bridge the interfaces between the
                                         physical world and cyberspace, ranging from enhancing performance in computing systems (e.g.,
                                         high-speed memory interfaces and I/O links) to providing critical functionalities in communication
                                         and sensing systems (e.g., 5G/6G and quantum computing)–remains significantly understudied.
                                         The fundamental challenge arises from the intricate design complexities of analog ICs. Unlike
                                         digital ICs that can be universally and hierarchically abstracted into Boolean logic representations
                                         and easily described with high-level hardware description languages (e.g., Verilog and VHDL) or
                                         programming languages (e.g., C), analog ICs remain intractable to such abstraction due to their


                                                                                            1
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




lack of systematic hierarchical representation and the heuristic and knowledge-intensive nature of
their design process (Gielen & Rutenbar, 2000). This makes it extremely hard to automate the
design of analog ICs by developing programming languages similar to those used for digital ICs. As
such, domain experts have followed a longstanding manual flow to design analog ICs. This process
involves a number of time-consuming stages, such as selecting/creating an existing (new) circuit
topology (i.e., defining the connections between devices), optimizing device parameters based on
the topology to achieve desired performance, and designing the physical layout of the optimized
circuit for manufacturing. Importantly, the topology generation stage is the foundation and most
creative part of the analog IC design process, posing a formidable and perennial challenge to design
automation. Addressing it is the key to accelerating the development of analog ICs.
There have been several studies in tackling this problem with generative AI techniques. The early
pioneering work, CktGNN (Dong et al., 2023), formulates the topology design as a graph generation
task, as circuit topologies of analog ICs can be naturally represented as graph structures. It uses a
graph variational autoencoder (VAE) to generate various circuit topologies for a specific type of
analog ICs, i.e., operational-amplifiers (Op-Amps). More recently, foundational models have also
been explored for designing analog circuit topologies. LaMAGIC (Chang et al., 2024), a fine-tuned
masked language model (MLM), has been proposed to generate analog circuits with a fixed number
of graph nodes. It shows a high success rate in designing a specific type of analog ICs, i.e., power
converters (with fewer than 4 devices). AnalogCoder (Lai et al., 2024), another LLM-based work,
uses domain-specific prompt engineering to generate analog circuits from well-established LLM
models (e.g., GPT-4). Instead of directly generating circuit topologies, it generates PySpice codes
that can be converted to a SPICE (Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit Emphasis) netlist–a
textual high-level description of device connections used for circuit simulation. AnalogCoder can
generate a range of conventional analog circuits that often have a limited number of devices on the
order of ten. These methods have demonstrated the potential of applying generative AI to analog IC
design. Yet, a vast untapped frontier remains.
This work proposes, AnalogGenie, a Generative engine (model) for automatic discovery of analog
circuit topologies. In contrast to previous methods (Dong et al., 2023; Chang et al., 2024; Lai
et al., 2024) that are limited to a smaller scale of generation (e.g., generating a single type of ana-
log ICs, small-size analog ICs, or conventional analog ICs), AnalogGenie addresses the problem
of scalable and general design. It can significantly broaden the variety of analog ICs, increase
the number of devices within a single design, and discover unseen circuit topologies. A major ob-
stacle to advancing generative models for scalable analog circuit design automation is the lack of
a comprehensive dataset of analog circuit topologies. We bridge this gap by building a extensive
dataset that consists of more than 3000 distinct analog circuit topologies with diverse functionalities
(e.g., Op-Amps, Low Dropout Regulator (LDO), Bandgap reference, Comparator, Phase-Locked
Loop (PLL), Low Noise Amplifier (LNA), Power Amplifiers (PA), Mixer, Voltage-Controlled Os-
cillator (VCO), etc) from public resources (Razavi, 2000; Razavi & Behzad, 2012; Johns & Martin,
2008; Gray et al., 2009; Allen & Holberg, 2011; Camenzind, 2005). In addition, we apply data
augmentation techniques to expand these circuit topologies by over 70×. To the best of our knowl-
edge, this is the largest circuit dataset that effectively incorporates and enhances existing real-world
analog circuit topologies to the greatest extent. This enables AnalogGenie to effectively learn var-
ious analog topologies and significantly enhance its generation capabilities, surpassing all previous
methods (Dong et al., 2023; Chang et al., 2024; Lai et al., 2024).
Nonetheless, another key barrier to advancing the scalable design of analog circuits is short of a
scalable and unambiguous representation of circuit topologies. AnalogCoder (Lai et al., 2024)
relies on high-level text representations that use multiple tokens to describe a single connection
between devices, making the generation prone to errors. CktGNN (Dong et al., 2023) and LaM-
AGIC (Chang et al., 2024) use graph-based representations with a fixed number of nodes, where
each node represents a circuit device or subgraph. This ignores the critical low-level details essen-
tial in analog circuit design, leading to ambiguous and unscalable circuit generation. We propose a
scalable sequence-style data structure that captures fundamental analog circuit design details while
efficiently describing large circuit graphs. Specifically, we represent each circuit topology as an
undirected graph where each node is a device pin (Figure 3). We then sequentialize it into an Eu-
lerian circuit–a trail that visits every edge exactly once and starts and ends at the same node. This
unique representation allows AnalogGenie to generate circuit topologies in a scalable, flexible, and
efficient manner. These developed dataset and techniques can thus enable AnalogGenie with excep-


                                                   2
                      Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025


                                                                                                                                   RL deplo
                                                                                                                                   device p
                                                       Topology                                  Graph generation
                                                     VDD                                                 Vdd                      Manually c
                                                                                                                                      the c
                                               PM1
                                                                                                         PM1
                                                                    Vout                                        Vout
                                                                                                                                  Compare p
                                                                                                                                          w
                                               Vin                   NM1                           Vin   NM1



                                                     VSS                                                  Vss
             VDD
                                                           SPICE
                                                                                         Adding new device or connection to
                                           M2 (Vout Vout VDD VDD) pmos4                 circuit by simply adding edge or node
                                           M1 (Vout Vin VSS VSS) nmos4

                                                           Graph                                 Code generation
       VSS          VDD                                     Vdd
                                                                                       M2 (Vout Vout VDD VDD) pmos4
                                                                                       M1 (Vout Vin VSS VSS) nmos4
                                                            PM1                        {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?}
                                                                   Vout

                                                     Vin    NM1                      Adding new device or connection to circuit
                                                                                      requires generating complete sentence
                                                            Vss
                                                                                        where each token can lead to error

                                           (a) Typical data representation for         (b) Existing analog circuit topology
                                                 analog circuit topology                      generation paradigms
      M2
                     Vout
Vin            M1     Figure 1: Current states of analog circuit topology generation. (a) Typical data representation for
                      analog circuit topology. (b) Existing analog circuit topology generation paradigms. Graph provides
                      a clear one-to-one mapping between the graph generation process and the circuit design process.
                      PySpice code is a high-level representation, making its generation process more prone to error.


                      tional capabilities to produce diverse, large, and unseen analog circuit topologies. The advancement
                      holds both profound engineering and scientific significance, demonstrating that generative AI can
                      not only meet human expertise but also unlock the possibilities beyond human capability.
                      The key contributions in this paper are: (1) We propose a generative engine, AnalogGenie, built on
                      a GPT model to generate diverse analog circuits by predicting the next device pin to connect in the
                      circuit; (2) We introduce a sequence-based, pin-level graph representation that efficiently and ex-
                      pressively captures large analog circuit topologies; (3) We develop a comprehensive dataset of ana-
                      log circuit topologies to advance research in analog electronic design automation using generative
                      AI and introduce an augmentation scheme to enhance data diversity. (4) Experiment results show
                      that AnalogGenie is capable of automatically generating far more, large-scale, valid, unseen, and
                      high-performance topologies compared to existing graph generation and foundation model work.

                      2     P RELIMINARIES AND R ELATED W ORKS

                      2.1   D ESIGN P ROCESSES OF A NALOG C IRCUITS

                      The design process of analog circuits begins with creating the circuit topology, which involves de-
                      termining the device types (i.e., NMOS/PMOS transistor, capacitor, resistor, inductor, etc.) and the
                      number of devices, and defining how they are interconnected. Following this, designers perform
                      device sizing, i.e., optimizing the physical dimensions of devices to achieve desired performance.
                      Finally, the physical layout (i.e., mask design) is developed to prepare for manufacturing. Note that
                      a physical design is the representation of an IC in terms of planar geometric shapes corresponding
                      to the different stacked physical layers (e.g., metal, oxide, or semiconductor) during the fabrication
                      process. Of all these stages, topology design demands the most creative effort, as it needs to be
                      conceptualized from scratch by human designers. While significant progress has been made in au-
                      tomating device sizing (Wang et al., 2020; Cao et al., 2022; Gao et al., 2023; Cao et al., 2024) and
                      layout design (Kunal et al., 2019; Xu et al., 2019), the topology generation remains a challenging
                      problem due to its abstract and complex nature. This work aims to address this thorny issue.

                      2.2   G ENERATIVE AI FOR A NALOG C IRCUIT T OPOLOGY G ENERATION

                      An analog circuit topology can be naturally represented as a graph structure, providing a clear one-
                      to-one mapping between graph generation and topology design (Figure 1(a)). For instance, adding


                                                                                 3
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




a node to a graph corresponds directly to adding a new device to a circuit topology, while adding
an edge between nodes represents a new connection between devices. This intuitive representation
has led most existing topology generation methods to focus on graph generation (Figure 1(b)), such
as CktGNN (Dong et al., 2023) and LaMagic (Chang et al., 2024). Yet, these approaches are often
limited to generating only a single type of circuit topology (e.g., Op-Amps or power converters).
This is because they rely on one-shot generation by predicting the adjacency matrix directly and
pre-define the number of nodes for generation, thereby suffering from low scalability (Zhu et al.,
2022). In contrast, our work employs sequential graph generation (Section 3), offering far greater
flexibility and more adaptability to various types of circuit designs.
An analog circuit can also be compiled into a SPICE (Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit
Emphasis) netlist (Figure 1(a)). A SPICE netlist is a text-based high-level description of the con-
nection between devices (i.e., nets) in a circuit topology, which is used in the process of circuit
performance simulation. Leveraging the powerful code and text generation capabilities of LLMs,
recent work, AnalogCoder (Lai et al., 2024), applies domain-specific prompt engineering to exist-
ing LLMs to generate Python-style SPICE (i.e., PySpice) netlists for analog circuits. However, the
availability of publicly accessible SPICE netlist data remains significantly limited compared to the
wealth of publicly available analog circuit topologies. This is because analog circuit topologies
are human-readable illustrations commonly found in textbooks and scientific publications, whereas
netlists are software-oriented representations often used together with confidential semiconductor
technologies to extract circuit performance by simulation tools. Another key challenge faced by
code generation approaches is their reliance on high-level text-based circuit topology representa-
tions. Specifically, to add a new device or connection, autoregressive models must predict multiple
tokens to generate a complete line of code (Figure 1(b)), making them more prone to errors com-
pared to graph-based methods, which require only a single action per step. AnalogCoder (Lai et al.,
2024) shows that even advanced models (e.g., GPT-4) struggle to correctly generate simple circuits
with fewer than 10 devices. Thus, our work focuses on graph generation to achieve a more robust
and scalable generation.


2.3   O PEN -S OURCE A NALOG C IRCUIT DATASETS

The lack of a comprehensive analog circuit dataset fundamentally hinders the development of gen-
erative AI-based methods to automate the design of analog ICs. While some circuit datasets exist
in the field, such as those provided by Align (Kunal et al., 2019), CktGNN (Dong et al., 2023), and
AMSNet (Tao et al., 2024), they are often limited to specific types of analog circuits (i.e., Op-Amp)
without any label (e.g., circuit performance). In addition, most of their topologies are synthesized
by permutating pre-defined template, resulting in non-unique designs. To address this fundamental
gap, we have created a thorough dataset by collecting 3350 distinct analog circuit topologies with di-
verse functionalities (e.g., LDO, Bandgap reference, Comparator, PLL, LNA, PA, Mixer, VCO, etc)
from public resources (Razavi, 2000; Razavi & Behzad, 2012; Johns & Martin, 2008; Gray et al.,
2009; Allen & Holberg, 2011; Camenzind, 2005). To ensure accurate connections, each schematic
is manually drawn in an industry-standard circuit design tool for performance simulation. We also
labeled each circuit with its performance metrics.


3     A PPROACH

AnalogGenie is a domain-specific GPT model designed to generate various analog circuit topologies
with greatly improved scalability. To achieve this, we first introduce an expressiveness-enhanced
graph representation that models each device pin as an individual node, ensuring that every connec-
tion and interaction between circuit devices is explicitly represented. Next, we develop a sequence-
style data structure to effectively handle large-scale analog circuits that can be typically modeled
as large and sparse graphs. To further enhance the generation quality of AnalogGenie, we propose
a data augmentation technique to address both data scarcity and the permutation invariance issue
inherent in sequence data. Building upon these innovations, we customize a tokenizer to pre-train
AnalogGenie and perform finetuning afterward, enabling AnalogGenie to generate specific type of
high-performance circuits.


                                                  4
                                                            NM1_G      NM1     NM1_B




                                                                       NM1_S
                                                                                                            NM1_D



                                    Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025      VIN       NM1_G        NM1
                                                                                                                      NM1_G
                                                                                                                                                                               NM1                     NM2
                                                                                                                        B



                                                 Topology
                                                                                                            NM1_S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RL deployment
                                                                                                                                                                                           NM1                                                    device parame
                                                                               Efficient sequential graph representation (Sec 3.1-3.3)
                                       Vin
                                                                    VDD                                                Vdd                                                                                                                    Manually constru
                                                                                                                                                      Euler circuit                                                                               the circuit b
                                                            PM1
                                                                                                                       PM1                      VSS   NM1         PM1   ...    VSS
                                                                                      Vout                                     Vout                                                                                                          Compare post-lay

                                                            Vin                                                 Vin    NM1
                                                                                                                                                VSS   NM1         Vin   ...    VSS                                                                   with the
                                                                                       NM1




                                                                                                                                                            ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NM1
                                SPICE
                                                                    VSS                                                Vss
                                                                                                                         Augmented by permutating
                M2 (VOUT VOUT VDD VDD) pmos4                                                                                   traversal path
                M1 (VOUT VIN VSS VSS) nmos4                         Generate diverse analog circuits by predicting the next device pin (Sec 3.4)

             Code generation                                         VSS                     AnalogGenie (decoder only transformer)                                      NM1

  M2 (VOUT VOUT VDD VDD) pmos4
                                                                                                         Masked
  M1 (VOUT VIN VSS VSS) nmos4                                                               Layer                             Layer    Feed
                                                                                                                                                  +
                                                                                            Norm
                                                                                                          Self-       +       Norm    Forward
  {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?}                                                                       Attension

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Device pin level graph representation
                                                     NM2
Adding new device or connection to circuit
 requires generating complete sentence
   where each token can lead to error                                                                                                                                                                             NM1_D                   NM2_D


    (b) Existing analog circuit topology                                                    AnalogGenie (decoder only transformer)                                      PM1
                                                            VSS       NM1
           generation paradigms              Layer
                                                                                                                                                                                                          NM1_G   NM1     NM1_B   NM2_G   NM2       NM2_B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NM1
                                             Norm                                                        Masked
                                                                                            Layer                             Layer    Feed
                                                                                            Norm
                                                                                                          Self-       +       Norm    Forward    +
                                                                                                        Attension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NM1_S                   NM2_S



                                     Graph


                                                                                                                      ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NM1
                                                                                      Op Amp                 Bandgap Reference Switched Capacitor                       ...
                                                                                                                                    Sampler



                                    Figure 2: Overview of AnalogGenie. AnalogGenie represents each topology as a sequence and
                      (a) Typical data representation for
                                    generates all sorts of analog circuit topology from scratch by predicting the device pin to connect.
                            analog circuit topology




                                                                     Generate all sorts of
                                    3.1       E XPRESSIVENESS -E NHANCED      G RAPH R EPRESENTATION FOR T OPOLOGY M ODELING
                                                                    analog circuit topology
                                                                                            from scratch
                                                                                                                                                            Vss         NM1

                                    Prior works (Dong et al., 2023; Lu et al., 2023) rely on high-level graph representations to generate                                            PM1



                                    circuit topologies, where each node represents a device or a subgraph. This method omits essen-                                                              NM1


                                    tial low-level device details, leading to the issue of ambiguous generation, i.e., a single generated                                                               PM1

                                    graph can be interpreted as multiple unique topologies. To understand this, consider that an NMOS
                                                                                Vss

                                    transistor (NM) has four device pins–drain (D), gate (G), source (S), and body (B). When an entire
                                    device is abstracted into a single node, it becomes challenging to interpret to which pin an edge
                                                                                          AnalogGenie
                                    connects (Figure 3(a)). Therefore, to ensure a unique one-on-one mapping between the graph and                          Vss         NM1


                                    the circuit topology–where
                                                             Predictevery     circuit connection is explicitly represented, an analog circuit has
                                                                     the next device
                                                                 pin to connect
                                    to be represented at the pin level (Figure 3(b)). Furthermore, previous methods restricted the graph
                                    representation of analog circuit topologies to AnalogGenie
                                                                                          directed acyclic graphs (DAGs), greatly limiting the
                                    types of circuit topologies that can be learned and generated. In this work, we adopt a more expres-
                                    sive and flexible representation of analog circuit topologies. Specifically, we represent the topology
                                    of an analog circuit as a finite connected undirected graph G = (V, E), where V = {1, 2, . . . , n} is
                                    the node set representing each device pin with |V | = n and E ∈ V × V is the edge set. For each
                                    node i in a graph G, we let N (v) = {u ∈ V | (u, v) ∈ E} denote the set of neighboring nodes of v.

                                    3.2       S EQUENTIAL G RAPH R EPRESENTATION OF S CALABLE A NALOG C IRCUIT T OPOLOGIES

                                    Previous methods (Dong et al., 2023; Lu et al., 2023) use adjacency matrices to represent circuit
                                    graphs. Yet, an adjacency matrix requires O n2 space to store n nodes, regardless of the number of
                                    edges, which is inefficient for sparse graphs. Analog circuit topologies are typically sparse because
                                    most devices are connected only to their immediate neighbors. As a result, the number of edges e is
                                    far smaller than n2 , leaving the adjacency matrix filled with zeros and wasting significant space on
                                    non-existent edges. For example, the graph in Figure 2 has six nodes and six undirected edges or 12
                                    directed edges. An adjacent matrix will need 6×6 matrices to represent them, wasting 24 elements
                                    to store nothing. In contrast, our work represents the graph as an Eulerian circuit that stores only
                                    existing edges, making it much more efficient than adjacency matrices, particularly for handling
                                    large analog circuit topologies. More examples of the advantages of using the Eulerian circuit to
                                    represent large sparse graphs can be found in Appendix A.3.


                                                                                                                          5
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Definition 3.2.1: Eulerian circuit is a graph trail that visits every edge exactly once and starts and
ends at the same node.
Theorem 3.2.1: Let G = (V, E) be a finite connected undirected graph. Construct a directed graph
D = (V, A) by replacing each undirected edge {u, v} ∈ E with two directed arcs (u, v) and (v, u)
in A. Then, the directed graph D contains at least one Eulerian circuit starting from any node.
Proof. Since directed graph D = (V, A) is derived from a finite connected undirected graph G =
(V, E), all of D’s node will have even degree and directed graph D is connected. According to Euler
theorem (Biggs et al., 1986), if a graph is connected and every node has even degree, then it has at
least one Eulerian circuit. The Eulerian circuits can start at any vertex. Thus, the directed graph D
contains at least one Eulerian circuit starting from any vertex.
Theorem 3.2.1 clearly shows that all analog topologies have at least one Eulerian circuit once the
original finite connected undirected graph G is converted into a finite connected directed graph D.
Thus, we know that our Eulerian circuit can represent any analog circuits as long as they can be
represented as finite connected undirected graph (i.e., Eulerian circuit traverse each directed edge
exactly once when we convert finite connected undirected graph to finite connected directed graph).

3.3   DATA AUGMENTATION TO P REVENT OVER - FITTING AND R EDUCE I NDUCTIVE B IAS

Conventional graph-based generation circuit methods (Dong et al., 2023; Chang et al., 2024) rely on
synthetic circuit data to mitigate model overfitting by permutating circuit connections under a fixed
number of nodes. Models trained on such data fail to capture the full complexity and nuances of
real-world circuits, limiting their ability to generate only a single type of analog circuits. In addition
to the overfitting, another critical issue that significantly impacts the model’s learning ability is
the inherent bias in data representation. Permutation invariance is a fundamental inductive bias of
graph-structured data. For a graph with n nodes, there are up to n! different adjacency matrices that
are equivalent representations of the same graph. A well-designed circuit generative model should
assign the same probability to each of these equivalent representations.
To address these limitations, AnalogGenie learns from real-world circuits with diverse circuit types
and their augmented representations. Specifically, AnalogGenie learns diverse representations from
each analog circuit topology by generating multiple unique Eulerian circuits that represent the same
topology. This allows us to generate 70× more data. Eulerian circuits ensure each sequence traverses
each directed edge exactly once. To enforce graph-level permutation invariance, AnalogGenie adopt
the approach used by GraphRNN (You et al., 2018), employing a breadth-first-search (BFS) algo-
rithm to assign node orders within each device type, ensuring that each circuit topology has a unique
graph representation. To further minimize permutation invariance at the sequence level, AnalogGe-
nie manually defines “VSS” (the ground node universal to all analog circuits) as the starting node for
all sequences. These techniques let AnalogGenie to learn a robust and generalizable representation.

3.4   C USTOMIZING T OKENIZER TO P RE -T RAIN A D OMAIN -S PECIFIC GPT M ODEL

Built on the above foundations, we customize a tokenizer to encode and decode our sequence that
represents the circuit topology to train AnalogGenie. Table 2 in Appendix A.2 shows an example
of a look-up table used for tokenization, where each token represent a device pin. The device type
and the maximum number of devices in each device type are determined through a data-driven
method by scanning the devices types and number in the training data. To allow AnalogGenie to
generate topologies with different numbers of devices, we introduce a special “Truncate” token and
use padding to ensure that all sequences have the same length.
With this customized tokenizer, we pre-train AnalogGenie to predict the next device pin in the
sequence. Unlike traditional pre-training of LLMs, which often involves randomly cropping se-
quences from text documents, AnalogGenie’s pre-training ensures that each sequence corresponds to
a complete circuit topology. Specifically, given an unsupervised corpus of tokens U = {u1 , . . . , un }
that represent one circuit topology, we aim to maximize the standard language modeling objec-
tive (Radford et al., 2018) to train AnalogGenie. During generation, AnalogGenie begins with a
single context token, “VSS” (the starting node for all Eulerian circuits) and completes the rest of the
sequence, ensuring it represents a valid circuit topology. The pre-trained AnalogGenie model is ca-
pable of learning from various circuit topologies without requiring knowledge of their performance


                                                    6
                                               Topology
                                           Published   as a conference paper at ICLR 2025

                                                                                                                                                                                            RL
                                                            Vout                                                                                                                            dev

                                       Vin
                                                                                                                                                                                           Manu
                                                                                             Non-unique mapping from graph
                                                                                                   to circuit topology
                                                                     NM1             NM2                                                                                                   Comp


                                                                                                                          NM1                NM2
                                SPICE

                M2 (VOUT VOUT VDD VDD) pmos4
                M1 (VOUT VIN VSS VSS) nmos4
                                                                                                                                                    Adding new device or connection to
                                                                                                                          NM1                NM2   circuit by simply adding edge or node
             Code generation




                                                                                                                                       ...
  M2 (VOUT VOUT VDD VDD) pmos4                                                               (a) Device level graph representation
  M1 (VOUT VIN VSS VSS) nmos4
  {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?} {?}                                                                                            D
                                                                           NM1_D                    NM2_D
                                                  NM2
Adding new device or connection to circuit                                                                            G          B
 requires generating complete sentence
                                                                   NM1_G   NM1     NM1_B    NM2_G   NM2     NM2_B
   where each token can lead to error                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                           NM1               NM2
    (b) Existing analog circuit topology                                   NM1_S                    NM2_S
           generation paradigms

                                                                                           (b) Device pin level graph representation

                                     Graph
                                           Figure 3: Comparison between two different circuit graph representations. (a) An example showing
                                           the limitation of device level graph representation used by previous graph generation work (Dong
                                           et al., 2023; Lu et al., 2023), which oversimplified the analog circuit connection and led to non-
                                           unique mapping from graph to circuit topology during generation. (b) Our device pin-level graph
                                           representation ensures there is a unique mapping between each graph and circuit topology and is
                                           able to explicitly represent every connection in a circuit topology.
                      (a) Typical data representation for
                            analog circuit topology

                                           or specific circuit types. We then can further fine-tune it to target high-performance, unseen circuits
                                           for a particular task following the typical manner of reinforcement learning with human feedback.

                                           4     R ESULTS

                                           4.1    E XPERIMENT SETUP

                                           Dataset and AnalogGenie setup. Our circuit dataset contains 3350 distinct topologies, spanning
                                           11 circuit types: Op-Amps, LDOs, Bandgap references, Comparators, PLLs, LNAs, PAs, Mixers,
                                           VCOs, Power converters, and Switched Capacitor Samplers. The largest circuit comprises 54 de-
                                           vices. The performance of circuits has been evaluated with circuit simulator and thus been labeled.
                                           The detailed statistics are shown in Appendix A.1. During training, we first split the topology data
                                           set into train and validation sets with a 9 to 1 ratio. Then, we leverage the data augmentation tech-
                                           nique in Section 3.3 to generate 70× unique sequences of these circuit topologies. This ensures that
                                           all the topologies in the validation set are unseen. Our AnalogGenie model is a decoder-only trans-
                                           former consisting of 6 hidden layers and 6 attention heads with 11.825 million parameters in total.
                                           The vocab size is 1029. The maximum sequence length is 1024.
                                           Baselines. We compare AnalogGenie with recent approaches for analog circuit generation, i.e., Ck-
                                           tGNN (Dong et al., 2023) based on VAE, and LaMAGIC (Chang et al., 2024) and AnalogCoder (Lai
                                           et al., 2024) built on foundation models. These methods are different from AnalogGenie in circuit
                                           representation, generation capability and scalability as introduced in Section 2.2. We follow the
                                           original work to produce the baseline results.
                                           Evaluation task and metrics. We focus on evaluating the generative capabilities of AnalogGenie
                                           and baseline models. Specifically, we employ each model to generate topologies for various circuits,
                                           including Op-Amps, bandgap references, and power converters, and assess the outcomes based on
                                           four key criteria: correctness, scalability, novelty, and performance. (1) Correctness: We use a
                                           standard circuit simulator to determine whether the generated circuits are simulatable with default
                                           sizing, checking for issues such as floating and shorting nodes (i.e., open and short circuits). Circuits
                                           that are simulatable are considered valid. (2) Scalability: We measure scalability by recording the
                                           number of circuit types and the largest valid circuit generated by each model, based on the number of
                                           devices. (3) Novelty: We assess the novelty of generated topologies by comparing them to existing


                                                                                                                7
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Figure 4: Comparisons between AnalogGenie pretrained with unaugmented data and augmented
data. Our augmentation method is able to improve validation loss around 8.5×.


ones in the dataset. A topology is deemed novel if it differs from all known topologies in our
datasets. (4) Performance: We size each generated topology using a genetic algorithm and use the
figure-of-merit (FoM) that considers all major metrics (e.g., gain, bandwidth, power for Op-Amps),
as a comprehensive indicator to represent the circuit performance. We compare the best FoM of the
circuits generated by each model.

4.2     E NHANCED G ENERATION C APABILITIES WITH DATA AUGMENTATION

We begin by examining the impact of the proposed data augmentation technique on the learning
capabilities of AnalogGenie. The unaugmented training dataset consists of only 3015 unique se-
quences due to the train and validation split, with each sequence representing a distinct circuit
topology. Figure 4 compares the training performance of AnalogGenie using unaugmented data
(3015 sequences) against augmented data (227766 sequences). The results demonstrate that our
augmentation technique reduces validation loss by approximately 8.5×. We also evaluate how this
improvement influences the quality of circuit generation. The results indicate that without aug-
mentation, AnalogGenie struggled with overfitting, leading to failures in generating valid circuits.
In contrast, augmentation significantly enhances generation quality, increasing the number of valid
circuits by 73.5× as shown in Table 1.


Table 1: Performance comparison between AnalogGenie and existing analog circuit topology gen-
eration work.
                                                                        Topology scale ↑                                               FoM ↑
 Evaluation Metric                     Valid circuits (%) ↑                                        Novel circuits (%) ↑
                                                              Topology type    Number of devices                          Op-Amp   Power Converter   Bandgap
 CktGNN                                       67.5                 1                   22                 93.1             10.9           -             -
 LaMAGIC                                      68.2                 1                    4                 12.7               -           2.2            -
 AnalogCoder                                  57.3                 7                   10                  8.9              1.7           -             -
 AnalogGenie (unaug+pretrain)                  1                  >11                  20                 82.1              0             0            0
 AnalogGenie (aug+pretrain)                   73.5                >11                  63                 98.9             19.3          2.5          17.2
 AnalogGenie (aug+pretrain+finetune)          93.2                >11                  56                  99              36.5          3.3          21.9




4.3     C OMPARISONS WITH S TATE - OF - THE -A RTS

Next, we compare AnalogGenie with existing VAE model (CktGNN (Dong et al., 2023)) and foun-
dation models (LaMAGIC (Chang et al., 2024) and AnalogCoder (Lai et al., 2024)) addressing the
problem of analog circuit topology generation. The comparisons are shown in Table 1.
Correctness: AnalogCoder generates only 57.3% valid circuits, primarily due to the error-prone
nature of code generation. CktGNN and LaMAGIC, which employ graph generation techniques,
achieve slightly better results, with 67.5% and 68.2% valid circuits, respectively. They rely on high-
level graph representations, which pose interpretability issues (i.e., ambiguous connections between
devices), as discussed in Section 3.1. In contrast, AnalogGenie uses an expressive device pin-level
representation, where each connection is explicitly defined, eliminating the mapping issues seen


                                                                               8
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




with the other models. As such, AnalogGenie demonstrates superior correctness, achieving 73.5%
valid circuits after pretraining and an impressive 93.2% after fine-tuning.
Scalability: CktGNN and LaMAGIC are developed for specific types of circuits, such as Op-Amps
or power converters, which limits their ability to generate beyond those particular types. Analog-
Coder is able to design 7 circuit types. AnalogGenie demonstrates a zero-shot capability to gen-
erate circuit types outside its training set, which includes 11 analog circuit types, as shown in Ap-
pendix A.4.2.
Beyond topology types, LaMAGIC is constrained by its graph representation, which contains only
four device nodes, preventing it from generating larger circuits. CktGNN has a similar limitation
with its fixed-node graph representation, which supports at most 22 devices. AnalogCoder also
struggles with scalability, making it capable of generating circuit topologies with a maximum of
10 devices. This restriction arises from its prompt template, which requires users to specify small
circuit examples with limited device counts, leading the GPT model to generate circuits of similar
size. In contrast, AnalogGenie benefits from a comprehensive dataset, which includes topologies
with over 50 devices. Its sequential representation efficiently captures these larger designs, enabling
AnalogGenie to generate circuits with up to 64 devices after pretraining and 56 devices after fine-
tuning, all within a limited sequence length.
Novelty (unseen designs): AnalogCoder generates only 8.9% novel circuits, as it is designed pri-
marily for task completion rather than exploring new topologies. LaMAGIC, limited to circuits with
just four devices, produces 12.7% novel circuits. CktGNN, with its graph model supporting up to 22
device nodes, achieves 93.1% novel circuit discovery. Remarkably, AnalogGenie generates nearly
100% novel circuits, leveraging its ability to design large circuits from scratch. Visualizations of
these novel circuits are provided in Appendix A.4.1
Performance: For Op-Amp design, AnalogCoder achieves a low FoM of just 1.7, constrained by
the limited design options available through its prompt engineering. CktGNN performs significantly
better with a FoM of 10.9, though it is still restricted by the lack of detailed low-level design con-
trol. AnalogGenie, with its expressive graph structure and flexible bottom-up generation method,
initially achieves a FoM of 19 after pre-training. However, following fine-tuning with a focus on
high-performance Op-Amp design, AnalogGenie makes impressive gains, reaching a FoM of 36.5.
In power converter design, AnalogGenie performs similarly to LaMAGIC, achieving a FoM of 2.5
compared to LaMAGIC’s 2.2. After fine-tuning, AnalogGenie further improves, discovering topolo-
gies that achieve a FoM of 3.3, thanks to its larger design capacity. Lastly, AnalogGenie stands out
as the only model capable of designing bandgap reference circuits. Its pre-trained model achieves a
FoM of 17.2, while fine-tuning elevates this to an outstanding FoM of 21.9.
In conclusion, AnalogGenie demonstrates unmatched superiority over AnalogCoder, CktGNN, and
LaMAGIC across key metrics such as correctness, scalability, novelty, and performance. This ad-
vantage stems from its expressive device pin-level graph representation, which ensures precise and
accurate circuit generation, combined with its efficient sequential data structure that supports larger,
more complex designs. Additionally, its bottom-up generation approach allows for greater flexibility
and innovation in circuit topology, enabling AnalogGenie to explore beyond the limitations faced by
the other models. These strengths collectively make AnalogGenie a highly versatile and powerful
tool for analog circuit topology design.



5   C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK

In this paper, we have introduced AnalogGenie, a generative engine built on a GPT model to generate
diverse analog circuits by predicting the next device pin to connect within a circuit. AnalogGenie
addresses two key gaps in the field: building a comprehensive dataset of analog circuit topology
and developing a scalable sequence-based graph representation universal to analog circuits. Exper-
imental results across three types of analog circuit benchmarks demonstrate that our method can
efficiently discover previously unseen circuit topologies in a scalable manner. Given the expressive
nature of our representation and the bottom-up generative approach, we believe that our method has
broader applicability beyond analog circuit topology generation and can be generalized to digital
design as well. Ultimately, we consider our work to pave the way for the integration of generative


                                                   9
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




AI into IC design, fostering a mutually beneficial relationship where IC design enhances generative
AI capabilities, while generative AI accelerates IC design advancements.
Limitations and future work. AnalogGenie is a comprehensive framework that combines a
domain-specific generative engine for discovering analog circuit topologies with a genetic algo-
rithm for optimizing the parameters (e.g., sizing and bias) of the generated topologies. The primary
focus of our work is on discovering topologies with a high likelihood of achieving a superior FoM
once sized. While the current sizing algorithm is effective, its sample efficiency can be improved by
exploring more advanced alternatives (Wang et al., 2020). Additionally, for digital circuit develop-
ment, we will consider combining AnalogGenie’s graph generation approach with code generation
work to enhance its ability.

6   R EPRODUCEBILITY S TATEMENT

The main theoretical backbone of our paper is Theorem 3.2.1. We have already shown its proof
in Section 3.2. Furthermore, we discussed our experiment setup and implementation details in Sec-
tion 4.1. We also provide open-source code in supplementary material, including data augmentation,
pretraining, and finetuning. The genetic algorithm sizing framework and Ngpsice simulation infras-
tructure are also provided in the supplementary material. For our open-sourced circuit dataset, we
provide its statistics in Appendix A.1. We will make our code and dataset public on Github in the
future.

7   ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This work was partially supported by NSF Award #2416375. We also thank Professor Lei Li of
Carnegie Mellon University for valuable discussions on graph generation.

R EFERENCES
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Ale-
  man, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, et al. Gpt-4 technical
  report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023.

Phillip E Allen and Douglas R Holberg. CMOS analog circuit design. Elsevier, 2011.

Norman Biggs, E Keith Lloyd, and Robin J Wilson. Graph Theory, 1736-1936. Oxford University
  Press, 1986.

Jason Blocklove, Siddharth Garg, Ramesh Karri, and Hammond Pearce. Chip-chat: Challenges and
  opportunities in conversational hardware design. In 2023 ACM/IEEE 5th Workshop on Machine
  Learning for CAD (MLCAD), pp. 1–6. IEEE, 2023.

Hans Camenzind. Designing analog chips. Virtualbookworm Publishing, 2005.

Weidong Cao, Mouhacine Benosman, Xuan Zhang, and Rui Ma. Domain knowledge-infused deep
 learning for automated analog/radio-frequency circuit parameter optimization. In Proceedings of
 the 59th ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference, pp. 1015–1020, 2022.

Weidong Cao, Jian Gao, Tianrui Ma, Rui Ma, Mouhacine Benosman, and Xuan Zhang. Rose-opt:
 Robust and efficient analog circuit parameter optimization with knowledge-infused reinforcement
 learning. IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, 2024.

Chen-Chia Chang, Yikang Shan, Shaoze Fan, Jing Li, Shun Zhang, Ningyuan Cao, Yiran Chen, and
  Xin Zhang. Lamagic: Language-model-based topology generation for analog integrated circuits.
  arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.18269, 2024.

Kaiyan Chang, Ying Wang, Haimeng Ren, Mengdi Wang, Shengwen Liang, Yinhe Han, Huawei Li,
  and Xiaowei Li. Chipgpt: How far are we from natural language hardware design. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2305.14019, 2023.


                                                 10
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Zehao Dong, Weidong Cao, Muhan Zhang, Dacheng Tao, Yixin Chen, and Xuan Zhang. Cktgnn:
  Circuit graph neural network for electronic design automation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.16406,
  2023.

Yonggan Fu, Yongan Zhang, Zhongzhi Yu, Sixu Li, Zhifan Ye, Chaojian Li, Cheng Wan, and
  Yingyan Celine Lin. Gpt4aigchip: Towards next-generation ai accelerator design automation
  via large language models. In 2023 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer Aided
  Design (ICCAD), pp. 1–9. IEEE, 2023.

Jian Gao, Weidong Cao, and Xuan Zhang. Rose: Robust analog circuit parameter optimization
   with sampling-efficient reinforcement learning. In 2023 60th ACM/IEEE Design Automation
   Conference (DAC), pp. 1–6. IEEE, 2023.

Georges GE Gielen and Rob A Rutenbar. Computer-aided design of analog and mixed-signal inte-
  grated circuits. Proceedings of the IEEE, 88(12):1825–1854, 2000.

Paul R Gray, Paul J Hurst, Stephen H Lewis, and Robert G Meyer. Analysis and design of analog
  integrated circuits. John Wiley & Sons, 2009.

David A Johns and Ken Martin. Analog integrated circuit design. John Wiley & Sons, 2008.

Kishor Kunal, Meghna Madhusudan, Arvind K Sharma, Wenbin Xu, Steven M Burns, Ramesh
  Harjani, Jiang Hu, Desmond A Kirkpatrick, and Sachin S Sapatnekar. Align: Open-source analog
  layout automation from the ground up. In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Design Automation
  Conference 2019, pp. 1–4, 2019.

Yao Lai, Sungyoung Lee, Guojin Chen, Souradip Poddar, Mengkang Hu, David Z Pan, and Ping
  Luo. Analogcoder: Analog circuit design via training-free code generation. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2405.14918, 2024.

Mingjie Liu, Teodor-Dumitru Ene, Robert Kirby, Chris Cheng, Nathaniel Pinckney, Rongjian Liang,
 Jonah Alben, Himyanshu Anand, Sanmitra Banerjee, Ismet Bayraktaroglu, et al. Chipnemo:
 Domain-adapted llms for chip design. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.00176, 2023a.

Mingjie Liu, Nathaniel Pinckney, Brucek Khailany, and Haoxing Ren. Verilogeval: Evaluating large
 language models for verilog code generation. In 2023 IEEE/ACM International Conference on
 Computer Aided Design (ICCAD), pp. 1–8. IEEE, 2023b.

Jialin Lu, Liangbo Lei, Jiangli Huang, Fan Yang, Li Shang, and Xuan Zeng. Automatic op-amp gen-
   eration from specification to layout. IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated
   Circuits and Systems, 2023.

Alec Radford, Karthik Narasimhan, Tim Salimans, Ilya Sutskever, et al. Improving language under-
  standing by generative pre-training. OpenAI blog, 2018.

Behzad Razavi. Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits. McGraw-Hill, Inc., USA, 1 edition,
  2000. ISBN 0072380322.

Behzad Razavi and Razavi Behzad. RF microelectronics, volume 2. Prentice hall New York, 2012.

Zhuofu Tao, Yichen Shi, Yiru Huo, Rui Ye, Zonghang Li, Li Huang, Chen Wu, Na Bai, Zhiping Yu,
  Ting-Jung Lin, et al. Amsnet: Netlist dataset for ams circuits. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.09045,
  2024.

Shailja Thakur, Jason Blocklove, Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, Siddharth Garg, and
  Ramesh Karri. Autochip: Automating hdl generation using llm feedback. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2311.04887, 2023.

Shailja Thakur, Baleegh Ahmad, Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, Ramesh
  Karri, and Siddharth Garg. Verigen: A large language model for verilog code generation. ACM
  Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems, 29(3):1–31, 2024.


                                               11
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Hanrui Wang, Kuan Wang, Jiacheng Yang, Linxiao Shen, Nan Sun, Hae-Seung Lee, and Song Han.
  Gcn-rl circuit designer: Transferable transistor sizing with graph neural networks and reinforce-
  ment learning. In 2020 57th ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference (DAC), pp. 1–6. IEEE,
  2020.
Haoyuan Wu, Zhuolun He, Xinyun Zhang, Xufeng Yao, Su Zheng, Haisheng Zheng, and Bei Yu.
  Chateda: A large language model powered autonomous agent for eda. IEEE Transactions on
  Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, 2024.
Biying Xu, Keren Zhu, Mingjie Liu, Yibo Lin, Shaolan Li, Xiyuan Tang, Nan Sun, and David Z Pan.
  Magical: Toward fully automated analog ic layout leveraging human and machine intelligence. In
  2019 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer-Aided Design (ICCAD), pp. 1–8. IEEE,
  2019.
Jiaxuan You, Rex Ying, Xiang Ren, William Hamilton, and Jure Leskovec. Graphrnn: Generat-
   ing realistic graphs with deep auto-regressive models. In International conference on machine
   learning, pp. 5708–5717. PMLR, 2018.
Ruizhe Zhong, Xingbo Du, Shixiong Kai, Zhentao Tang, Siyuan Xu, Hui-Ling Zhen, Jianye Hao,
  Qiang Xu, Mingxuan Yuan, and Junchi Yan. Llm4eda: Emerging progress in large language
  models for electronic design automation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.12224, 2023.
Yanqiao Zhu, Yuanqi Du, Yinkai Wang, Yichen Xu, Jieyu Zhang, Qiang Liu, and Shu Wu. A survey
  on deep graph generation: Methods and applications. In Learning on Graphs Conference, pp.
  47–1. PMLR, 2022.




                                                12
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




A     A PPENDIX
A.1   DATASET STATISTICS

Figure 5 and Figure 6 are the statistics of our open-source dataset. The total number of topologies
is 3350, and all of them are unique.




                Figure 5: Our analog circuit dataset’s device number distribution.




             Figure 6: Our analog circuit dataset’s circuit topology type distribution.




                                                 13
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




A.2   T OKENIZER LOOKUP TABLE

Table 2 shows the tokenizer lookup table we used in our experiment. Specifically, our lookup table
does not only describe basic devices (e.g., NMOS, PMOS, etc.) but also describes logic gates (e.g.,
INV, XOR, etc.) that consist of multiple devices so it can scale up to describe large digital circuits
for constructing mixed-signal circuits.


 Table 2: The tokenizer’s look-up table we used in our experiment for device to index mapping
 Device         Index Device             Index Device           Index Device            Index
 NM1                 0     NM1 D              1          NM1 G          2     NM1 S             3
 NM1 B              4      NM2                5          ...           ...    NM25 B          124
 PM1               125     PM1 D             126         PM1 G        127     PM1 S           128
 PM1 B             129     PM2              130          ...           ...    PM25 B          249
 NPN1              250     NPN1 C           251          NPN1 B       252     NPN1 E          253
 NPN2              254     ...                ...        NPN25 E      349     PNP1            350
 PNP1 C           351      PNP1 B           352          PNP1 E       353     PNP2            354
 ...                ...    PNP25 E          449          R1           450     R1 P            451
 R1 N              452     R2                453         ...           ...    R25 N           524
 C1                525     C1 P              526         C1 N         527     C2              528
 ...                ...    C25 N            599          L1           600     L1 P            601
 L1 N              602     L2                603         ...           ...    L25 N           674
 DIO1              675     DIO1 P           676          DIO1 N       677     DIO2           678
 ...                ...    DIO25 N          749          XOR1         750     XOR1 A          751
 XOR1 B            752     XOR1 VDD          753         XOR1 VSS     754     XOR1 Y          755
 XOR2              756     ...                ...        XOR5 Y       779     INV1            815
 INV1 A           816      INV1 Q           817          INV1 VDD     818     INV1 VSS        819
 INV2              820     ...                ...        INV10 VSS    864     TG1             865
 TG1 A             866     TG1 B             867         TG1 C        868     TG1 VDD         869
 TG1 VSS           870     TG2               871         ...           ...    TG10 VSS        924
 VIN1              925     VIN2              926         VIN3         927     VIN4            928
 VIN5              929     IIN1              930         IIN2         931     ...              ...
 LOGICQB1         1024     LOGICQB2         1025         VDD         1026     VSS            1027
 TRUNCATE         1028




                                                    14
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




A.3   M ORE DETAILS ABOUT E ULERIAN CIRCUIT AND DATA AUGMENTATION

As shown in Figure 7, since we need to represent a circuit topology in an expressive way (i.e., device
pin level), a small circuit with two devices can lead to a graph with 14 nodes. Using an adjacency
matrix to represent it will take 14 × 14 = 256 elements. On the other hand, the Eulerian circuit
only needs 43 elements, which is around 5.95× smaller than the adjacency matrix representation.
For our data augmentation, we permutate how the DFS algorithm explores its neighbor to generate
unique Eulerian circuits. The number of Eulerian circuits will drastically increase with the number
of devices.



                                                                 VDD




                                                                PM1_S




             VDD                                       PM1_G     PM1      PM1_B



       PM1
                                                                PM1_D
                            VOUT1
                                                                          VOUT1
      VIN1                   NM1                                NM1_D



             VSS
                                               VIN1    NM1_G     NM1      NM1_B




                                                                 NM1_S




                                                                  VSS




               (a) Topology                    (b) Device pin level graph representation



 ['VSS' 'NM1_S' 'NM1' 'NM1_D' 'VOUT1' 'PM1_D' 'PM1' 'PM1_G' 'VOUT1''PM1_G' 'PM1_D' 'NM1_D' 'PM1_G' 'NM1_D'
 'PM1_D' 'PM1_G' 'PM1' 'PM1_S' 'VDD' 'PM1_B' 'PM1' 'PM1_B' 'PM1_S' 'PM1_B' 'VDD' 'PM1_S' 'PM1' 'PM1_D' 'VOUT1'
 'NM1_D' 'NM1' 'NM1_G' 'VIN1' 'NM1_G' 'NM1' 'NM1_B' 'VSS' 'NM1_B' 'NM1_S' 'NM1_B' 'NM1' 'NM1_S' 'VSS']

 ['VSS' 'NM1_B' 'NM1' 'NM1_D' 'VOUT1' 'PM1_D' 'PM1' 'PM1_G' 'VOUT1''PM1_G' 'PM1_D' 'NM1_D' 'PM1_G' 'NM1_D'
 'PM1_D' 'PM1_G' 'PM1' 'PM1_S' 'VDD' 'PM1_B' 'PM1' 'PM1_B' 'PM1_S' 'PM1_B' 'VDD' 'PM1_S' 'PM1' 'PM1_D' 'VOUT1'
 'NM1_D' 'NM1' 'NM1_G' 'VIN1' 'NM1_G' 'NM1' 'NM1_S' 'VSS' 'NM1_S' 'NM1_B' 'NM1_S' 'NM1' 'NM1_B' 'VSS']

 ['VSS' 'NM1_S' 'NM1_B' 'VSS' 'NM1_B' 'NM1' 'NM1_D' 'VOUT1' 'PM1_D' 'PM1' 'PM1_G' 'VOUT1' 'PM1_G' 'PM1_D'
 'NM1_D' 'PM1_G' 'NM1_D' 'PM1_D' 'PM1_G' 'PM1' 'PM1_S' 'VDD' 'PM1_B' 'PM1' 'PM1_B' 'PM1_S' 'PM1_B' 'VDD'
 'PM1_S' 'PM1' 'PM1_D' 'VOUT1' 'NM1_D' 'NM1' 'NM1_G' 'VIN1' 'NM1_G' 'NM1' 'NM1_S' 'NM1' 'NM1_B' 'NM1_S' 'VSS']

 ['VSS' 'NM1_B' 'NM1_S' 'VSS' 'NM1_S' 'NM1' 'NM1_D' 'VOUT1' 'PM1_D' 'PM1' 'PM1_G' 'VOUT1' 'PM1_G' 'PM1_D'
 'NM1_D' 'PM1_G' 'NM1_D' 'PM1_D' 'PM1_G' 'PM1' 'PM1_S' 'VDD' 'PM1_B' 'PM1' 'PM1_B' 'PM1_S' 'PM1_B' 'VDD'
 'PM1_S' 'PM1' 'PM1_D' 'VOUT1' 'NM1_D' 'NM1' 'NM1_G' 'VIN1' 'NM1_G' 'NM1' 'NM1_B' 'NM1' 'NM1_S' 'NM1_B' 'VSS']

                        (C) Four Eulerian circuits we found by using DFS



Figure 7: An example of analog circuit topology, its device pin level graph representation, four
unique Eulerian circuits we found by using DFS.




                                                      15
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




A.4     A NALOG G ENIE ’ S GENERATED CIRCUIT TOPOLOGY VISUALIZATION


In this section, we show some of the novel circuits AnalogGenie generated and demonstrate its
zero-shot capability by generating circuits that belong to a type that is not included in the dataset.
Particularly, to visualize the circuit schematic, we manually draw all the examples in Cadence Vir-
tuoso, which is an industry-standard analog schematic edit tool.



A.4.1    N OVEL CIRCUITS




Figure 8: A novel Op-Amp circuit generated by AnalogGenie with GBW = 12 MHz, CL = 100 pF,
Power = 32.88 mW, and FoM = 36.5.




Figure 9: A novel DC converter circuit generated by AnalogGenie with Efficiency = 0.95, Voltage
conversion ratio = 2.35, and FoM = 3.3.


                                                 16
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Figure 10: A novel bandgap reference circuit generated by AnalogGenie with TC = 3 ppm/◦ C, Line
regulation = 0.196 %/V, PSRR = 70 dB, and FoM = 21.9.




                                               17
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




A.4.2   Z ERO - SHOT GENERATION




Figure 11: An example showing AnalogGenie’s zero-shot ability by generating a transconductance
amplifier which is a circuit type that is not included in our dataset.




                                               18
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




A.5   FAILED EXAMPLES GENERATED BY A NALOG G ENIE PRE - TRAINED MODEL




                                 Figure 12: Failed example 1.




                                 Figure 13: Failed example 2.




                                               19
