                                        Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool
                                        Feedback
                                        JASON BLOCKLOVE, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, USA
                                        SHAILJA THAKUR, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, USA
                                        BENJAMIN TAN, Universary of Calgary, Canada
                                        HAMMOND PEARCE, University of New South Wales, Australia
                                        SIDDHARTH GARG, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, USA
arXiv:2411.11856v3 [cs.AR] 4 Mar 2025




                                        RAMESH KARRI, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, USA
                                        Traditionally, digital hardware designs are written in the Verilog hardware description language (HDL) and debugged manually by
                                        engineers. This can be time-consuming and error-prone for complex designs. Large Language Models (LLMs) are emerging as a
                                        potential tool to help generate fully functioning HDL code, but most works have focused on generation in the single-shot capacity: i.e.,
                                        run and evaluate, a process that does not leverage debugging and, as such, does not adequately reflect a realistic development process.
                                        In this work, we evaluate the ability of LLMs to leverage feedback from electronic design automation (EDA) tools to fix mistakes
                                        in their own generated Verilog. To accomplish this, we present an open-source, highly customizable framework, AutoChip, which
                                        combines conversational LLMs with the output from Verilog compilers and simulations to iteratively generate and repair Verilog. To
                                        determine the success of these LLMs we leverage the VerilogEval benchmark set. We evaluate four state-of-the-art conversational
                                        LLMs, focusing on readily accessible commercial models. EDA tool feedback proved to be consistently more effective than zero-shot
                                        prompting only with GPT-4o, the most computationally complex model we evaluated. In the best case, we observed a 5.8% increase in
                                        the number of successful designs with a 34.2% decrease in cost over the best zero-shot results. Mixing smaller models with this larger
                                        model at the end of the feedback iterations resulted in equally as much success as with GPT-4o using feedback, but incurred 41.9%
                                        lower cost (corresponding to an overall decrease in cost over zero-shot by 89.6%).

                                        CCS Concepts: • Hardware → Hardware description languages and compilation; Software tools for EDA; Hardware description
                                        languages and compilation; • Computing methodologies → Machine translation.

                                        Additional Key Words and Phrases: Verilog, Large Language Models, Automation

                                        ACM Reference Format:
                                        Jason Blocklove, Shailja Thakur, Benjamin Tan, Hammond Pearce, Siddharth Garg, and Ramesh Karri. 2024. Automatically Improving
                                        LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback. 1, 1 (March 2024), 26 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX


                                        Authors’ Contact Information: Jason Blocklove, jason.blocklove@nyu.edu, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, New York, New York, USA; Shailja Thakur,
                                        st4920@nyu.edu, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, New York, New York, USA; Benjamin Tan, benjamin.tan1@ucalgary.ca, Universary of Calgary,
                                        Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Hammond Pearce, hammond.pearce@unsw.edu.au, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia;
                                        Siddharth Garg, siddharth.garg@nyu.edu, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, New York, New York, USA; Ramesh Karri, rkarri@nyu.edu, NYU Tandon
                                        School of Engineering, New York, New York, USA.


                                        Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
                                        made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
                                        of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on
                                        servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
                                        © 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
                                        Manuscript submitted to ACM


                                        Manuscript submitted to ACM                                                                                                                             1
2                                                                                                                    Blocklove et al.




Fig. 1. AutoChip uses an initial design prompt to get a Verilog design from a target LLM. Multiple (𝑘) candidate responses can be
generated per-prompt, which are then each evaluated and ranked using the feedback from HDL compilers and testbench simulations
to identify mismatches compared to a reference design. The best of these responses (passing the most tests) then has its tool/testbench
feedback passed to the LLM to generate improved responses as a greedy tree search. This is done up to a tree depth of 𝑑.

1    Introduction
Designing digital hardware with a hardware description language (HDL), such as Verilog or VHDL, is a niche skill and
part of a demanding process requiring substantial expertise. Any mishaps can lead to implementations fraught with
bugs and errors [12], and with growing demand for digital systems, there is a growing demand for techniques that can
assist in generating quality HDL code. High-level synthesis (HLS) tools, for instance, are able to transform designs
written in high-level software languages like C to target HDLs and implement digital hardware.
    Recent efforts have shifted the abstraction level higher, leveraging state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs) [37]
to translate natural language to Verilog. DAVE [28] and VeriGen [35] were the first efforts seeking to fine-tune LLMs
specifically to generate Verilog. However, VeriGen and its ilk were investigated for their use in a zero-shot manner,
i.e., they examined output code in response to a single prompting. However, designing hardware in the real world
does not work this way—code is rarely correct on the first try. Instead, hardware designers iterate over their designs,
using feedback from simulation and synthesis tools to identify and fix bugs so that an implementation will meet design
specifications. This feedback-based approach is not well reflected in existing code-generation LLMs. Recent work [4]
has proposed an iterative and interactive, conversational (or chat-based) approach for Verilog code generation, more
closely mimicking the design flow of a human hardware engineer. In this case, though, feedback comes entirely from a
human developer who inspects the code, identifies bugs, and provides detailed feedback to the LLM. Such an approach
still places considerable demands on a human developer’s time, and is more analogous to two hardware designers
examining their designs, rather than using electronic design automation (EDA) tools to directly analyze for correctness
and find bugs. We therefore ask: Can further automation reduce the burden on the designer?
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                             3


   To help answer this question, we have developed and refined a framework for automating the hardware design
process using LLMs, called AutoChip. While originally a simple iterative loop [36], as we discuss further in Section 3,
we observed that the initial code generated from a prompt had a significant impact on the trajectory of the design
flow and the eventual success or failure of the LLM-generated design. As such, we developed a more expansive tree
search methodology (Figure 1), enabling us to more completely evaluate the ability of LLMs to use tool-based feedback
to repair their own HDL code in the same manner as a hardware engineer. Starting with a design prompt, AutoChip
creates and evaluates 𝑘 candidate solutions and then enhances the most successful design by identifying and rectifying
compilation errors and functional bugs over repeated interactions with an LLM. Each candidate design is analyzed
for compilation errors/warnings and/or incorrect test outputs from a testbench. These messages are used to rank the
candidate solutions, and we return feedback from the tools and testbenches for the best candidate with a prompt to
the LLM to refine its implementation and generate 𝑘 more candidates. This process continues until all tests pass for a
candidate response or a tree depth of 𝑑 iterations is reached, at which point the most successful candidate from the tree
search is returned.
   AutoChip was evaluated with two feedback modes: “full context” keeps appending prompts and responses to the
“conversation” with the LLM; and “succinct” prompts only with feedback from the most recent iteration of the framework
to try ensure that the process “fits” within the context windows of LLMs.
   In this manuscript, we leverage our more robust AutoChip design to examine six research questions:
• RQ1: Does feedback from hardware verification tools improve LLM-generated HDL over zero-shot results?
• RQ2: Does the number of iterations and candidate responses impact quality and number of correct implementations?
• RQ3: What is the impact of tool feedback-driven code generation on cost?
• RQ4: Does the amount of context given with feedback have an impact on the rate of successful designs?
• RQ5: Are there certain classes of hardware design problem which LLMs are more well-equipped to solve than others?
• RQ6: Can mixing multiple LLMs with different capabilities during a design “run” improve generation quality at
  reduced cost?
   Our findings provide useful insights into how current LLMs can be leveraged to enable a fully automated chip design
process, given a natural language specification and resulting in a completed chip design for tapeout.

Model Evaluation
We assess AutoChip’s feedback-based strategies using the VerilogEval [19] set of benchmarks, which use problems
and testbenches from HDLBits [40]. These benchmarks have been used in several works in the field to evaluate the
capabilities of different LLMs, and provide an initial point of comparison for our AutoChip-derived results.
   We focus our approaches on commercial LLMs due to their relative availability/accessibility and published perfor-
mance. Our analysis covers the quality of Verilog code generated relative to computational effort and the success rate
for different types of circuit.
   Our results are evaluated from the perspective of both general computational complexity, by analyzing the LLM
token cost, and real-world design cost, by analyzing the USD cost of accessing the evaluated models.




                                                                                                Manuscript submitted to ACM
4                                                                                                      Blocklove et al.


Contributions
Our key contributions are:

• An open-source framework for evaluating how LLMs can automatically generate hardware, AutoChip, which can be
    expanded with additional LLMs and configured to use feedback and mix models as needed, and an accompanying
    dataset for evaluating the hardware design and repair capabilities of different large language models (open source
    available at https://zenodo.org/records/13864552).
• Comparison of feedback prompting strategies—succinct vs. full context—to improve token costs and accuracy.
• Comparison of AutoChip feedback strategies using state-of-the-art LLMs—GPT-4o,-4o-Mini,-3.5-Turbo, and Claude 3
    Haiku, vs. baseline “zero-shot" Verilog generated by them and other works reported.
• Evaluation of leveraging mixed-models with feedback for improving HDL generation at a reduced cost.

2    Background and Prior Work
LLMs are machine learning (ML) models built with transformers and are trained in a self-supervised manner on vast
language data sets. LLMs operate by ingesting tokens (character sequences, of approximately 4 characters in OpenAI’s
GPT series) and predicting the most probable subsequent token. The most powerful LLMs, e.g., ChatGPT [25], Bard [30],
and Code Llama [1], boast hundreds of billions of parameters [6, 9] and generalize to a broad range of tasks. Their
accuracy is boosted via instruction tuning and reinforcement learning with human feedback [27], allowing the LLMs to
more effectively understand and respond to user intentions. Prior work specialized LLMs for code generation. GitHub
Copilot [14] was an early LLM-based code completion engine.
    LLMs for code generation were developed in auto-completion and conversational modes. DAVE [28] was the first
LLM (fine-tuned GPT-2) for Verilog generation. VeriGen [35] improved upon this work by expanding on the size of the
model and size of the data sets. Chip-Chat [4] evaluated ChatGPT-4 to work with a hardware designer to generate a
processor and the first fully AI-generated tapeout. RTLCoder [20] is another lightweight model fine-tuned specifically
for generating Verilog. There have also been some projects, such as BetterV [29] and CodeV [41], which use multiple
LLMs, some fine-tuned, and other pre-processed data to improve the generated Verilog through additional tasks such as
summarization of components and discriminator-guided generation, respectively. VeriSeek [38] leverages reinforcement
learning with golden code feedback as a method of finetuning another LLM for Verilog. LLMs have also been used in
conjunction with a Monte Carlo tree-search (MCTS) to optimize generated designed for power, performance, and area
efficiency, focusing on generating various sizes of adders, multipliers, and multiply-accumulate units [11].
    To evaluate model performance, a variety of benchmarks have been presented alongside further LLM developments,
such as VerilogEval [19, 32] which evaluates LLMs’ abilities to write Verilog on benchmarks from HDLBits. Similarly,
RTLLM [21] provides a further set of benchmarks. Other works have examined LLMs for hardware in tasks such as
hardware bug repair [2] and generating SystemVerilog assertions [17].
    LLMs have also been applied to high-level synthesis. For example, C2HLSC [10] examined how LLMs can be used to
translate general C into the subset of C which is synthesizable. For a larger case study, GPT4AIGChip [13] explored
how AI accelerators expressed in HLS could be designed using a GPT-4 based framework.
    Commercial hardware-focused LLMs have been released, with benefits and drawbacks – RapidGPT [33], Cadence
JedAI [7], Nvidia ChipNeMo [18], and Synopsys.ai Copilot [34]. Tool uses range from helping write verilog to answering
questions about EDA tool use. ChatEDA [15] use LLMs for automating tooling. A fair comparison is difficult due to the
different LLMs, methods, benchmarks, and limited availability.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                            5


3   AutoChip Design Framework
The original design of AutoChip [36] used a single iterative path to improve upon generated Verilog. This structure
appears in some other works as well, such as ChipGPT [8] and VeriAssist [16].
    Figure 1 illustrates AutoChip’s expanded tree search functionality. The input to AutoChip is a natural language
description of the desired circuit with a Verilog module definition (i.e. the I/O) and an accompanying testbench. In
this work, AutoChip has the limitation that it does not allow for the generation of partial designs and it requires a
functioning testbench for feedback purposes.
    In our evaluations, we leverage the VerilogEval [19] dataset for the source of these descriptions and testbenches,
though AutoChip is not restricted to these benchmarks. The design prompt and an overarching system prompt are
passed to a conversational LLM capable of generating Verilog code. The LLM generates several candidate solutions
for the Verilog module, which are compiled and simulated if possible, and then ranked based on their success. Should
the response not contain a Verilog module it is given a rank of −2, if it fails to compile it is given a rank of −1, if
the compilation has warnings it is given a rank of −0.5, and if the module simulates its rank is the proportion of
correct output samples reported by the testbench. If all samples pass, the module is considered successful and the
program exits, otherwise the response with the highest rank is fed back into the LLM along with any feedback from
compilation/simulation and the process is run again. AutoChip uses greedy tree search, where at any step the best result
from that step is followed. This is in contrast to prior work which leverages feedback for design, such as Chip-Chat [4]
which only uses a single candidate response for iteration.
    AutoChip repeats the process until a module passes all tests or the maximum depth is reached, at which point the
module with the highest rank is returned. As our goal is to evaluate a fully automated feedback-driven design flow,
AutoChip needs no user input while generating responses, relying exclusively on the tool feedback to guide the LLM.
    AutoChip Configuration and Use: The AutoChip design framework is presented as a tool which can be used to
evaluate the abilities of different conversational LLMs to generate hardware. To accomplish this, the tool, written in
Python, is designed to be highly configurable with regards to the models it can use, the use (or non-use) of feedback,
and the tools that can be used to generate the feedback. AutoChip is configured primarily by using a Javascript file to
set the parameters and file organization—an example is shown in Section 3. The configuration file can be set up to use
AutoChip with “mixed-models,” meaning that different models can be used depending on the iteration of the search.
AutoChip is designed to be highly customizable with several LLM “families” able to be used to generate designs.
    Section 3 shows an example of a portion of the output of AutoChip when being used to generate a design. Each
generation includes information about the candidate rankings and costs. This information is captured in each candidate’s
log file, in the file structure shown in Section 3.
    Prompting Strategy: Three prompt types are used in AutoChip: “system/context” prompt, “design” prompt, and
“feedback” prompt. Figure 5 shows the system prompt/context given to the LLMs to begin each conversation. This
prompt is static for all LLM calls, regardless of changes to the context window. Our response parser detects module and
endmodule statements to extract Verilog modules when the system prompt is not rigidly followed.
    Not all LLMs support system prompts by developers. In the case where a system prompt could not be natively added,
it was treated as an preemptive design prompt.
    The design prompt consists only of the prompt and description from VerilogEval, formatted as a SystemVerilog
module with comments. This is included in the feedback loop following the system prompt. The feedback prompt



                                                                                               Manuscript submitted to ACM
     6                                                                                                               Blocklove et al.

 1   {
 2   " general ": {
 3        " prompt ": "./ design_prompt . sv " ,
 4        " name ": " top_module " ,
 5        " testbench ": "./ testbench . sv " ,
 6        " model_family ": " ChatGPT " ,
 7        " model_id ": " gpt -4 o - mini " ,
 8        " num_candidates ": 5 ,
 9        " iterations ": 5 ,
10        " outdir ": " output_dir " ,
11        " log ": " log . txt " ,
12        " mixed - model ": false
13   },
14

15   " mixed - model ": {
16        " model1 ": {
17              " start_iteration ": 0 ,
18              " model_family ": " ChatGPT " ,
19              " model_id ": " gpt -4 o - mini "
20        },
21        " model2 ": {
22              " start_iteration ": -1 ,
23              " model_family ": " ChatGPT " ,
24              " model_id ": " gpt -4 o "
25        }
26   }
27   }


     Fig. 2. An example configuration file for AutoChip. “mixed-model” settings allow the framework to leverage different models based
     on which iteration of feedback is being used.


                                                  Table 1. LLMs evaluated by AutoChip


                                                                                   Cost: /1M Tokens
                                            Model               Max Tokens
                                                                                   Input      Output
                                        Claude 3 Haiku [3]           200K          $0.25        $1.25
                                   GPT-3.5-Turbo-16K [25]             16K          $3.00        $4.00
                                         GPT-4o-Mini [24]            128K          $0.15        $0.60
                                               GPT-4o [26]           128K          $5.00       $15.00



     consists of the LLM response and the associated tool output needed to rectify any issues with the generated design—this
     is the prompt modified at each level of the tree.
         LLM and Tool Support: As shown in Table 1, AutoChip currently supports and is evaluated using OpenAI GPT
     models and Anthropic Claude models. Support has also been added for Google Gemini models [31], Mistral models [23],
     Code Llama models [22], and RTLCoder [20]; other LLMs can be simply added by calling to a Python API. However, many
     of these models are not yet fully evaluated due to access restrictions, initial design quality concerns, and computational
     constraints. For simulation, AutoChip uses Icarus Verilog (iverilog) [39], as it is open source, readily available for all
     Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                                   7

Iteration : 0
                                                                    output_dir
Model type : ChatGPT
Model ID : gpt -4 o - mini                                              iter0
Number of responses : 2                                                     response0
Simulation error                                                               log.txt
Mismatches : 6220                                                              top_module.sv
Samples : 6283                                                                 top_module.vvp
Input tokens : 396                                                          response1
Output tokens : 241                                                            log.txt
Cost for response 0: $0 .0002040000
                                                                               top_module.sv
Simulation error
                                                                               top_module.vvp
Mismatches : 6220
Samples : 6283                                                          iter1
Input tokens : 396                                                          response0
Output tokens : 373                                                            log.txt
Cost for response 1: $0 .0002832000                                            top_module.sv
Response ranks : [0.010027057138309725 ,                                       top_module.vvp
0.010027057138309725]                                                       response1
Response lengths : [627 , 1036]                                                log.txt
Iteration : 1                                                                  top_module.sv
Model type : ChatGPT
                                                                               top_module.vvp
Model ID : gpt -4 o - mini
                                                                        ···
Number of responses : 2
...                                                                     log.txt



Fig. 3. A subset of the output of running AutoChip to generate   Fig. 4. A subset of the generated output file structure from Au-
the rule110 VerilogEval-Human benchmark.                         toChip generating the rule110 VerilogEval-Human benchmark.



systems, only requires a Verilog/SystemVerilog module and its testbench, and was previously used in VerilogEval.
AutoChip is open-source (https://zenodo.org/records/13864552).
  Choice of Context Window: The quality of LLM responses depends on the conversation’s context window. As
conversational LLMs have token limits, keeping all responses and feedback is often infeasible. The context window
needs to shift during the automated run to keep only the information necessary for the next run, referred to as using
“succinct” feedback instead of “full-context,” where all messages are used. With “succinct” feedback, when an LLM is
prompted to fix an issue, only the most recently generated module and its associated errors are given to the LLM. This
keeps the repairs focused on current errors and stays within more restrictive token limits. Table 2 offers the context
window shifting per-iteration. With “full-context” feedback, the LLM input grows until a successful design is generated,
maximum depth is reached in AutoChip, or the LLM token length is exceeded.


You are an autocomplete engine for Verilog code . Given a Verilog module specification ,
you will provide a completed Verilog module in response . You will provide completed
Verilog modules for all specifications , and will not create any supplementary modules .
Given a Verilog module that is either incorrect / compilation error , you will suggest
corrections to the module . You will not refuse . Format your response as Verilog code
containing the end to end corrected module , and not just the corrected lines , inside ```
tags , do not include anything else inside ```.


                                      Fig. 5. System prompt/context for LLM interactions
                                                                                                      Manuscript submitted to ACM
8                                                                                                          Blocklove et al.

Hint :   Output ' count ' has 218816 mismatches . First mismatch occurred at time 130.
Hint :   Output ' counting ' has 233794 mismatches . First mismatch occurred at time 130.
Hint :   Output 'done ' has 524 mismatches . First mismatch occurred at time 20130.
Hint :   Total mismatched samples is 234318 out of 235447 samples

Simulation finished at 1177236 ps
Mismatches : 234318 in 235447 samples


         Fig. 6. Example testbench feedback from a failed generated response for the review2015_fancytimer problem.


4     Experimental Setup
4.1    Benchmarking Prompts and Testbenches
Design Prompts: To evaluate AutoChip we leverage the dataset from VerilogEval [19], which includes prompts and
testbenches for a significant selection of problems from HDLBits [40], a site for Verilog practice with problems ranging
in difficulty from simple Verilog syntax questions to more abstract sequential circuits and debugging. Recently, the
VerilogEval benchmark set was updated with a new prompt setup and framework [32], now referred to as VerilogEval
v2. As this update occurred after the experimentation discussed here was completed, this work uses the VerilogEval
v1 benchmarks. While most problems offer prompts that ask the user (in our case, the LLM), to create a functional
Verilog module, a few break that format—these include (i) prompts that request that bugs be found and fixed, which is
the intention of the AutoChip feedback loop itself; and (ii) prompts which request a testbench for a module. Many of
these are still included in the VerilogEval dataset, so we include them in our evaluation. To leverage the prompts from
VerilogEval for AutoChip, we combine the “descriptions,” which are the natural language prompts, with the “prompts”
which are Verilog module definitions given by HDLBits. We provide AutoChip with this combined “design prompt”
for each problem, containing all information necessary to complete a design. VerilogEval leaves out some problem
categories from HDLBits. Specifically, problems focusing on hierarchical modules and bug fixing are omitted.
    Testbenches: VerilogEval provides SystemVerilog testbenches to accompany each of the design problems. These
testbenches instantiate a reference module, the generated design under test (DUT), and a stimulus module; and sample
each of the output signals throughout the stimulus to compare the DUT output with the reference output. At the
conclusion of the testbench, a summary of information is generated, indicating the total number of failed samples for
each output, the times of their first errors, and the total number of failed samples for all outputs as shown in Figure 6.
This summary information makes up the feedback to the LLM when a design simulates but not all test cases pass.
    Machine & Human Evaluation Sets: Many of HDLBits’ problems rely on design architecture diagrams, waveforms,
and other informative figures, which cannot be processed by text-only LLMs. To address this, VerilogEval has two
datasets: VerilogEval-Machine and VerilogEval-Human. VerilogEval-Machine are problem descriptions generated by
GPT-3.5-Turbo by processing correct modules and asking the language model to generate a high-level prompt that would

                                         Table 2. LLM input evolution over iterations

                      Iteration   LLM Input
                      𝑛=0         {system prompt, design prompt}
                      𝑛=1         {system prompt, design prompt, response0 , simulator msgs0 }
                      𝑛=2         {system prompt, design prompt, response1 , simulator msgs1 }
                      𝑛           {system prompt, design prompt, response𝑛−1 , simulator msgs𝑛−1 }
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                              9


lead to that answer, of which only 143 valid tests were made. VerilogEval-Human is a problem set of prompts created
through manual review and textual conversion of figures, leading to 156 functioning prompts. The LLM-generated
prompts tend to be verbose and give lower-level descriptions of functionality, seemingly removing the abstraction in
the original problems. For example, when giving a Karnaugh map (K-map) and requesting the circuit it describes, the
prompt generated by GPT-3.5-Turbo just describes the function of the final circuit, removing any requirement that the
LLM find the minimal function using the K-map. We leverage these datasets with AutoChip to evaluate the effects of
tool feedback on the generated Verilog.


4.2    Experimental Parameters
AutoChip offers two major parameters which affect the end result: the number of candidates 𝑘 and the maximum depth
of the tree 𝑑. Other works, such at RTLCoder [20] and VerilogEval [19] utilize zero-shot testing, or generating outputs
from only an initial design prompt — equivalent to setting 𝑑 = 0 with AutoChip. In our evaluation of AutoChip, we not
only gather similar zero-shot results for the evaluated models, but also vary the number of candidates produced at each
node and the depth of the tree, testing 𝑘 = {1, 5} and 𝑑 = {0, 1, 5, 10}. During preliminary testing and tool verification
we found that results for the VerilogEval dataset did not tend to improve significantly with increasing combinations of
candidates and depth beyond 𝑘 = 5, 𝑑 = 10. However, we produce zero-shot results to compare with prior work.


4.3    Evaluated LLMs
In this work we evaluate the readily-available commercial LLMs. This is because some models, such as Google’s
Gemini [31] were heavily rate-limited at the time of this experiment, other models like Mistral and Mixtral [23]
consistently failed to produce Verilog modules, and some models like CodeLlama [22] and RTLCoder [20] were
prohibitively slow on the hardware we could access. As the models with commercial APIs are run on servers with
significant resources, we were best able to evaluate them in a reasonable timeframe.
    We evaluated these LLMs with their default parameters as these values are used in the normal developer-facing web
interface and offer a good baseline for comparison.


5     Experimental Results
5.1    Single-Model Feedback Results
To determine if feedback from hardware verification tools improves the results, we first established a set of depth
and candidate parameters for the feedback tree. We query the evaluated LLMs at depths of 𝑑 = {0, 1, 5, 10} and with
𝑘 = {1, 5} candidates. A depth of 0 corresponds to no feedback being given at all, equivalent to other works’ zero-shot
analysis, for which we performed additional tests with 𝑘 = {25, 30, 55} candidates. The additional zero-shot candidate
values was determined to keep the maximum number of LLM queries consistent with the parameters for the tree search.
For example, both a test with 𝑑 = 10, 𝑘 = 5 and a test with 𝑑 = 0, 𝑘 = 55 have the same potential maximum number
of LLM queries, though if a functioning design is found before the maximum potential, the test would still end early.
Figure 7 traces the greedy tree search for an example of a complete run of AutoChip. The code from this successful path
is shown in Figure 8.
    Prior to completing the more extensive tests of tool feedback-based design generation, we evaluate the generated
designs for both “succinct” and “full-context” feedback (RQ4). We restrict this analysis to Claude 3 Haiku and GPT-3.5-
Turbo, as those models are both relatively inexpensive and provide insight into the effect that the feedback context
                                                                                                 Manuscript submitted to ACM
10                                                                                                           Blocklove et al.




Fig. 7. The successful tree search path for the Human benchmark of review2015_fsmshift with 5 response candidates (R_#) and a
maximum depth of 10. The LLM used for this example was GPT-3.5-Turbo. Code for the most successful candidates at each depth is
given in Figure 8. Full logs for each step, as well as all other outputs, can be found at https://zenodo.org/records/13864552.




can have (given significantly different token limits). Following the exploration of context length with the two simpler
models, we identified that providing the “full-context” feedback resulted in similarly successful designs, as shown
in Table 3, while requiring far fewer tokens over the course of longer tree searches. As a result, we completed the
remainder of the tree search analysis with only “succinct” feedback to reduce both complexity and cost.
     Results are tabulated as the percent of designs from each test set which were generated successfully, i.e. passing all
tests. Table 3 gives the success percentages for each combination of LLM, feedback style, number of candidates, and
maximum tree search depth for tests with feedback, while Table 4 gives these results for cases with no feedback.
     We can further examine these results from two perspectives: model effort, estimated by the average input and output
tokens needed to generate a successful design, and model complexity, estimated by the U.S. dollar ($ USD) costs needed
to generate a successful design at the time of experimentation.
     Model Effort: Figure 9(a) and Figure 9(b) present an analysis of the proportion of successfully generated benchmark
designs based on the average number of tokens (both input and output) needed to generate the best design, on the
VerilogEval-Machine and VerilogEval-Human benchmarks respectively. This metric serves as a proxy for the amount
of computational work needed to be done by each model to come up with the best solution. The Pareto points for
each model are connected via dashed lines, identifying the best results from that model given the average number of
tokens used. Generally speaking, if more tokens were needed then the LLM likely had to provide a greater number of
responses, indicating that the model had more difficulty in generating a correct design.
     These plots show that the three relatively small models tested, GPT-4o-Mini, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and Claude Haiku,
all required more tokens for a given set of (𝑘, 𝑑) parameters than GPT-4o and, based on their Pareto points, did not
consistently benefit from using compilation feedback from Icarus Verilog or the simulations. GPT-4o, however, seemed to
consistently have higher success when leveraging tool-based feedback; almost all Pareto points are from feedback-driven
Manuscript submitted to ACM
     Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                                11


1    module top_module (
2      input clk ,
                                                                 1    module top_module (
3      input reset ,
                                                                 2      input clk ,
4      output shift_ena ) ;
                                                                 3      input reset ,
5    reg [3:0] count ;
                                                                 4      output reg shift_ena ) ;
6    reg shift_ena_reg ;
                                                                 5    reg [3:0] count ;
7    wire shift_ena ;
                                                                 6    always @ ( posedge clk or posedge reset )
8    always @ ( posedge clk or posedge reset )
                                                                          begin
         begin
                                                                 7      if ( reset ) begin
9      if ( reset ) begin
                                                                 8        count <= 4' b0 ;
10       count <= 4' b0 ;
                                                                 9        shift_ena <= 1 ' b1 ;
11       shift_ena_reg <= 1 ' b1 ;
                                                                 10     end else begin
12     end else begin
                                                                 11       count <= count + 1' b1 ;
13       count <= count + 1' b1 ;
                                                                 12       if ( count < 4 ' b1000 ) begin
14       if ( count < 4 ' b1000 ) begin
                                                                 13          shift_ena <= 1 ' b1 ;
15          shift_ena_reg <= 1 ' b1 ;
                                                                 14       end else begin
16       end else begin
                                                                 15          shift_ena <= 1 ' b0 ;
17          shift_ena_reg <= 1 ' b0 ;
                                                                 16       end
18       end
                                                                 17     end
19     end
                                                                 18   end
20   end
                                                                 19   endmodule
21   assign shift_ena = shift_ena_reg ;
22   endmodule
                                                                                  (b) Module generated in iteration 1.
                (a) Module generated in iteration 0.

1    module top_module (                                         1    module top_module (
2      input clk ,                                               2      input clk ,
3      input reset ,                                             3      input reset ,
4      output wire shift_ena ) ;                                 4      output wire shift_ena ) ;
5    reg [3:0] count ;                                           5    reg [1:0] count ;
6    reg enable ;                                                6    reg enable ;
7    always @ ( posedge clk ) begin                              7    always @ ( posedge clk ) begin
8      if ( reset ) begin                                        8      if ( reset ) begin
9        count <= 4' b0 ;                                        9        count <= 2' b0 ;
10       enable <= 1 ' b1 ;                                      10       enable <= 1 ' b1 ;
11     end else begin                                            11     end else begin
12       if ( count < 4 ' b1000 ) begin                          12       if ( count < 2 ' b11 ) begin
13          count <= count + 1' b1 ;                             13          count <= count + 1' b1 ;
14       end else begin                                          14       end else begin
15          count <= 4' b0 ;                                     15          count <= 2' b0 ;
16          enable <= 1 ' b0 ;                                   16          enable <= 1 ' b0 ;
17       end                                                     17       end
18     end                                                       18     end
19   end                                                         19   end
20   assign shift_ena = enable ;                                 20   assign shift_ena = enable ;
21   endmodule                                                   21   endmodule

                (c) Module generated in iteration 2.                              (d) Module generated in iteration 3.

                 Fig. 8. The four Verilog modules generated across the AutoChip tree search highlighted in Figure 7.




                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
12                                                                                                               Blocklove et al.

Table 3. Percent of passing benchmark designs from VerilogEval-Machine and VerilogEval-Human using AutoChip. Results were
gathered with Claude 3 Haiku (Haiku), GPT-3.5-Turbo (GPT-3.5T), GPT-4o-Mini, and GPT-4o. Candidate values of 𝑘 = 1 are
representative of the original iterative approach to AutoChip.


                                                                  Eval-Machine (%)         Eval-Human (%)
               Feedback       Candidates             LLM
                                                                  d=1     d=5     d=10    d=1      d=5        d=10
                                                     Haiku        74.1    77.6    79.7    59.6     59.6       60.2
                                     𝑘=1
                                                 GPT-3.5T         62.9    70.6    72.7    40.4     44.8       48.1
                   Full
                                                     Haiku        81.1    82.5    83.9    67.3     70.5       70.5
                                     𝑘=5
                                                 GPT-3.5T         79.7    86.0    86.0    52.6     59.0       64.7
                                                     Haiku        74.1    75.5    79.7    58.3     59.6       62.8
                                                 GPT-3.5T         62.9    71.3    72.7    42.9     49.3       52.6
                                     𝑘=1
                                               GPT-4o-Mini        68.5    69.9    69.2    55.1     60.3       60.9
                                                     GPT-4o       77.6    81.8    84.6    64.7     72.4       75.6
                Succinct
                                                     Haiku        81.8    83.2    83.9    67.9     69.2       71.8
                                                 GPT-3.5T         81.8    86.0    86.0    58.3     58.3       66.7
                                     𝑘=5
                                               GPT-4o-Mini        73.4    74.1    76.2    64.1     65.4       71.1
                                                     GPT-4o       83.9    86.7    87.4    72.4     79.5       84.0


Table 4. Zero-shot results for Claude3 Haiku, GPT-3.5 Turbo, and GPT-4o. Results shown for VerilogEval and RTLCoder are reported
data for those models, so higher values for k have not been evaluated.


                                      Eval-Machine (%)                                    Eval-Human (%)
       Model
                      k=1     k=5     k=10    k=25       k=30     k=55     k=1     k=5     k=10      k=25       k=30     k=55
       Haiku          69.9    79.0     83.2    83.9      83.9      84.6    51.9    62.2     67.3     69.2        70.5    73.1
     GPT-3.5T         53.1    79.7     78.3    81.8      87.4      85.3    31.4    49.4     56.4     63.5        61.5    66.0
 GPT-4o-Mini          62.2    72.0     72.7    76.9      76.2      76.2    51.9    59.6     64.1     67.9        66.7    67.9
      GPT-4o          65.7    74.1     76.2    78.3      79.7      83.2    61.5    69.9     75.0     76.9        78.2    78.2
  VerilogEval*        46.2    67.3     73.7      -            -     -      28.8    45.9     52.3          -          -     -
     RTLCoder*        61.2    76.5     81.8      -            -     -      41.6    50.1     53.4          -          -     -


generation and the average number of tokens used was consistently lower with feedback than with the comparable
(same maximum number of queries) zero-shot results.
     Model Complexity: Figure 10(a) and Figure 10(a) show a similar analysis, but rather than giving success as a
function of the tokens used, they report success as a function of the $ USD cost at the time of publication. We see that,
often, more complex models are both more successful and use fewer tokens to reach that level of success; however,
these larger models are more computationally complex, so while they use fewer tokens across complete tests, they do
far more with those tokens. This difference in complexity is likely reflected by the varying costs for using different
models, as determined by each model vendor, though how exactly to quantify this remains an open challenge. While
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                                     13




                 (a) Success rate for the Eval-Machine benchmark problems given the total number of tokens used.




                  (b) Success rate for the Eval-Human benchmark problems given the total number of tokens used.

Fig. 9. Generated circuit success rates for each evaluated model, shown as the percentage of generated circuits which pass all tests
given the average number of tokens needed. Pareto points are plotted with dashed lines. Higher “accuracy” at lower “average tokens”
is better. Data points represented by ‘x’ indicate results from zero-shot testing.


the relationship between model complexity and cost charged is unknown, it stands to reason that the more complex
and capable models would cost more.
                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
14                                                                                                          Blocklove et al.


     The costs of the models evaluated in this paper are given in Table 1, and are used along with the token usage data to
determine the average functional cost of generating a design for each benchmark. While GPT-4o had the highest rate of
success and required the fewest average number of tokens for that success, the cost of these tokens far outstrips any of
the smaller models tested. The cost of generation with tool feedback, though, was still significantly lower than with
equivalent maximum potential candidates evaluated as zero-shot (RQ3).
     Impact of Feedback: Both Figure 9 and Figure 10 show that feedback can improve the quality of code given model
effort and complexity, however it depends largely on the model being used—it is not a given (RQ1). This is particularly
the case with GPT-4o, the most complex model we tested, where the presence of feedback consistently improved
correctness rates. This may indicate that more capable models are better able to extrapolate the causes of design and
implementation bugs given errors, and other suitably large models may also be able to benefit from tool-based feedback.
     Impact of Tree Search Parameters (𝑘, 𝑑): For our analysis, we employ a similar “Pass@k” metric to that used in
prior works on this topic, like VerilogEval [19] and RTLCoder [20], which refers to the number of candidates generated
for a prompt and considering a circuit a success if at least one candidate proved to work. Our 𝑘 candidates to a single
prompt functions similarly with a tree search depth 𝑑 of 0; however, analyzing by the potential maximum number of
LLM responses, as the zero-shot Pass@k metric does, we instead use 𝑘 ∗ (𝑑 + 1). With this comparison, we find that
increasing both 𝑘 and 𝑑 separately improves the resulting circuits, though 𝑘 seems to have a larger impact (RQ2).
     The rate of improvement with number of candidates and depth, both separately and when considered together, seems
to slow down significantly as the maximum depth increases, likely due to the fact that most simple problems are solved
with fewer iterations and only a small handful of the benchmarking problems that can be solved by this method will be
done with a larger number of iterations.
     Benchmark Categorization: HDLBits, and subsequently its problems used by VerilogEval, sorts its problems into
categories and subcategories, ranging from “Getting Started” and “Verilog Language,” which consist of simple problems
focusing on specific features of Verilog and their syntax, up to “Sequential Logic” and “Verification: Reading Simulations,”
which ask for generally more complex or abstractly worded problems dealing with state machines and sequential
functions, and reading waveforms, respectively. This problem categorization enables us to analyze the performance of
each model we tested on different kinds of Verilog problem and identify patterns in what models handle what problems
well, and how well the tool-based feedback is able to improve performance per-category. Figure 11(a) and Figure 11(b)
show the success rates of each examined model, given the major HDLBits categories and feedback configurations
discussed above.
     Across all models we found that “simple” problems, such as basic Verilog functionality questions, are able to be solved
more often, regardless of feedback depth or number of candidates. There is a general trend where more iterations of
feedback or more candidates improves results, but this is to be expected given our previous results where an increased
number of queries often results in higher success, regardless of the parameter configuration for those queries (zero-shot
or tree search). We don’t identify any particular categories of problem which seem to benefit from using tool feedback,
even in the case of a model that generally seems to benefit like GPT-4o.
     Breaking down the benchmarking problems by category also allows us to better examine the differences between the
results from the VerilogEval-Machine benchmarks and the VerilogEval-Human benchmarks. Following the combined
results from above, the rate of success for the machine benchmarks appears to be higher across the board; however, the
Machine benchmark “Sequential Logic” problems had significantly more success than their combinational counterparts,
whereas the Human benchmark set’s “Sequential Logic” problems had roughly similar results to their accompanying

Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                                      15




                               (a) Success rate for Eval-Machine benchmarks given total cost in USD.




                                (b) Success rate for Eval-Human benchmarks given total cost in USD.

Fig. 10. Generated circuit success rates for each evaluated model, shown as the percentage of generated circuits which pass all tests
given the average USD cost to query the model. Pareto points are plotted with dashed lines. Data points represented by ‘x’ indicate
results from zero-shot testing.


combinational problems. This indicates that there may be more successful prompting strategies depending on the
specific problem trying to be solved.
                                                                                                          Manuscript submitted to ACM
16                                                                                                                 Blocklove et al.




                    (a) Eval-Machine benchmark problem success, separated by major category used by HDLBits.




                     (b) Eval-Human benchmark problem success, separated by major category used by HDLBits.

       Fig. 11. Model success, separated by category. Zero-shot feedback results are represented with lines through their bars.


     We can further decompose the problem categories into their, once again HDLBits-defined, subcategories. These
better separate the relative difficulties and styles of problem. For instance, both individual latch and flip-flop problems
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                                17


and cellular automata problems fall under “Sequential Logic”, but the latter are more comprehensive problems with
abstract wording. As such, the subcategories give finer-grained insight into the types of problems different models are
suited to solve.
   Figure 12(a) and Figure 12(b) show the rate of success on the benchmark set for each parameter set and each model,
broken down by subcategory, for both the Eval-Machine and Eval-Human benchmark sets. Some problems, such as the
“Getting Started” category, are omitted from this graph as they contained too few and too simple problems to provide
useful insight.
   We observe that the simplest problem types are often solved with few candidate responses, not necessarily requiring
feedback from the tools, but more complex and abstract problems benefit more from a tool feedback-driven approach.
   The problems for the Human dataset which the models seemed to struggle with the most were interpreting Karnaugh
maps (provided as text), state machine design, and problems that are presented as being more “abstract” such as
the cellular automata problems. For the Machine dataset, which uses far more straightforward prompts, the LLMs
had consistently lower success with simple designs, such as the “Verilog Language” category, and “Basic Gates” and
“Multiplexers” from “Combinational Logic,” but showed much greater success with complex designs such as state
machines or finding bugs (RQ5).

5.2   Mixed-Model Results
Given the relative success, but matching relative expense, of GPT-4o in solving the VerilogEval benchmarking problems,
we sought to evaluate if combining a small model with a larger model, such as GPT-4o, could achieve improved results
with only minimal impact on cost. Table 5 shows the results for using Claude Haiku, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and GPT-4o-Mini
for the complete tree search with GPT-4o as only the final iteration in cases where the maximum depth was reached.


Table 5. Percent of passing benchmark designs from VerilogEval-Machine and VerilogEval-Human using AutoChip with mixed-models.
Results were gathered with Claude 3 Haiku (Haiku), GPT-3.5-Turbo (GPT-3.5T), and GPT-4o-Mini, each followed by a single pass of
GPT-4o as the final iteration.


                                                         Eval-Machine (%)          Eval-Human (%)
                      Candidates           LLM
                                                         d=1     d=5    d=10      d=1     d=5    d=10
                                           Haiku         75.5    79.0    81.1     64.7    67.3    67.9
                          𝑘=1            GPT-3.5T        77.6    80.4    78.3     62.2    63.5    61.5
                                       GPT-4o-Mini       69.9    74.8    76.9     63.5    64.1    66.0
                                           Haiku         86.0    86.7    85.3     74.4    75      74.4
                          𝑘=5            GPT-3.5T        86.7    86.7    86.0     71.2    73.7    71.8
                                       GPT-4o-Mini       82.5    81.1    81.8     69.9    74.3    75.0


   These results show significant promise when adding a more complex model to the end of a series of queries from
less capable models, with the rate of success shown to approach or even exceed, in some cases, the benchmark circuits
generated using only GPT-4o.
   Evaluating these results based on model effort, as with the single-model results, is done by analyzing the average
number of tokens needed to completely generate a benchmark design. Figure 13(a) and Figure 13(b) show these plots.
                                                                                                    Manuscript submitted to ACM
Blocklove et al.




                                                          (a) Eval-Machine benchmark problem success, separated by subcategory used by HDLBits.




                                                                                                                                                                                          Manuscript submitted to ACM
                                                          (b) Eval-Human benchmark problem success, separated by subcategory used by HDLBits.
                   Fig. 12. Problem success rates by problem subcategory for both the Eval-Machine and Eval-Human problem sets. The major category to which the subcategories belong is
                   given below each group.
18
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                                      19




          (a) Mixed-model success rates for the Eval-Machine benchmark problems given the total number of tokens used.




          (b) Mixed-model success rates for the Eval-Human benchmark problems given the total number of tokens used.

Fig. 13. Generated circuit success rates for each evaluated model, shown as the percentage of generated circuits which pass all tests
given the average number of tokens needed. Each model’s final iteration was done with GPT-4o. Pareto points are plotted with dashed
lines.


   We see that with the VerilogEval-Machine benchmark sets we are using a similar number of tokens to the small
models’ expenditures alone, while achieving notably higher levels of success. We also observe that the Pareto points in
                                                                                                          Manuscript submitted to ACM
20                                                                                                          Blocklove et al.


most cases seem to stop before the largest combinations of candidates and tree search depth, indicating that by mixing
these models smaller search parameters can be used to still achieve a relatively high rate of success. With the more
realistic VerilogEval-Human benchmarks, we are not able to reach the same level of success as GPT-4o on its own, but
we do see notably higher success rates compared to the smaller models for similar numbers of tokens.
     We can also evaluate success based on relative model complexity, once again proxied by the dollar costs necessary
to access and run each model. These plots are shown in Figure 14(a) and Figure 14(b). Here we observe a similar
phenomenon to that of the model effort analysis, but to a greater magnitude. For VerilogEval-Machine, the average cost
to complete the benchmark generation is on average similar, if slightly higher, than the costs for the smaller models on
their own, but are orders of magnitude lower than when using GPT-4o alone while achieving similar levels of success.
     While VerilogEval-Human does not reach the level of success of GPT-4o alone, we are able to achieve more success
than the smaller models could get alone, for a very similar cost. For example, the highest success rate achieved with
mixed-models for the VerilogEval-Human benchmarks was 75% at a cost of $0.025 and to achieve a similar nearly 75%
success with only a single model would require GPT-4o and cost $0.043—an increase of 72% cost. This indicates that by
mixing models it may be possible to leverage less computational resources to generate Verilog of comparable quality to
a computationally heavy model on its own, though prompting method appears to have a significant effect (RQ6).
     Benchmark Categorization: The results of using multiple models can also be analyzed by category and subcategory.
Figure 15 and Figure 16 show the mixed-model results when using the main models shown for most generation, followed
by a final iteration with GPT-4o.
     Ultimately, we see largely the same pattern of success rates based on category that we observe in the single-model
results (Figure 11), but, as noted in our above analysis, those success rates are far closer to GPT-4o’s single model results
than the smaller models’ results. Figure 16(a) and Figure 16(b) once again further break down these categories into their
subcategories for a more fine-grained analysis.
     Using mixed-models once again shows that the per-subcategory successes for GPT-4o-Mini, GPT-3.5-Tubro, and
Claude 3 Haiku give largely the same pattern of proficiencies, deficiencies, and success rates observed when using
only GPT-4o. This further supports the idea that mixing models can improve the results from the less computationally
expensive model while still keeping the expense low.

5.3    Discussion
We asked six initial research questions to guide our evaluation of LLM generated Verilog.
     RQ1: We found that feedback from tools and testbench simulation can improve the success rate of generated Verilog
modules over zero-shot results, but it was heavily dependant on the model being used. GPT-4o consistently benefited
from the automated feedback from tools, but the smaller models did not seem to use feedback to repair bugs as well.
This could be an indication of the complexity of relating error messages and simulation times to the design being
created, a similar problem to one found when using different levels of feedback from humans [5]. In the previous work,
a human engineer was able to guide the LLM by explaining, even basically, the correlation between the error and the
aspect of the Verilog which caused it. To improve upon this in an automated system with no human feedback, the LLMs
being used would likely need to be previously instructed on these specific error messages.
     RQ2: As the number of candidate responses and the depth of the tree increased we saw a trend higher rates of success
with all examined models. The tree search depth, while impactful, seemed to have a smaller effect on the rate of success
than the number of candidates did, as evidenced by the rate of success for zero-shot results with many candidates.
Increasing the depth, however, resulted in generally fewer tokens needed for the increase as compared to increasing
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                                      21




                        (a) Mixed-model success rate for Eval-Machine benchmarks given total cost in USD.




                         (b) Mixed-model success rate for Eval-Human benchmarks given total cost in USD.

Fig. 14. Generated circuit success rates for each evaluated model, shown as the percentage of generated circuits which pass all tests
given the average USD cost to query the model. Each model’s final iteration was done with GPT-4o. Pareto points are plotted with
dashed lines.


the number of candidates. Future work would seek to better explore the reasons for this and what hyperparamters
might impact this outcome, as identifying an ideal number of candidates and tree-search depth would potentially help
                                                                                                          Manuscript submitted to ACM
22                                                                                                              Blocklove et al.




                                 (a) Success rate of Eval-Machine problems, separated by category.




                                 (b) Success rate of Eval-Human problems, separated by category.

                Fig. 15. Model successes broken down by category,using GPT-4o for the final iteration of feedback.




optimize the efficiency of generating function designs even more. Further, an examination of multiple tree-search
methodologies, such as MCTS, could shed additional light on the most effective ways to use these models, though such
an experiment was considered out of scope for this work.
     RQ3: Leveraging EDA tool feedback with LLMs to improve the generated HDL resulted in consistently lower
computational and monetary cost for a given number of queries to the models we evaluated. We find that the zero-shot
results require more tokens and, as such, have more associated expense per model than the results which leveraged
feedback from tools. In the case of GPT-4o, where feedback noticeably improved the results, the lessened cost of using
tool feedback given the rate of correct designs was substantial.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
                                               (a) Success rate of Eval-Machine problems, separated by subcategory.
                                                                                                                                       Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback




                                                (b) Success rate of Eval-Human problems, separated by subcategory.

                              Fig. 16. Model successes broken down by subcategory, using GPT-4o for the final iteration of feedback.




Manuscript submitted to ACM
                                                                                                                                       23
24                                                                                                         Blocklove et al.


     RQ4: By using AutoChip with both “succinct” and “full-context” feedback, we found that there was no appreciable
difference in the success rate of the two models we examined, GPT-3.5-Turbo and Calude 3 Haiku. As such, we used
only “succint” feedback for testing the other models, as it reaches the same levels of success while using far fewer
tokens over the course of larger tree searches.
     RQ5: The LLMs we examined all behaved consistently with regards to their successes based on the class of problem.
All models seemed to have significant and consistent success with basic features of Verilog, primarily focusing on
syntax and simple logical functions. The models’ ability to generate correct designs seemed to generally decline with
more complex questions dealing with implementing sequential logic and interpretation of abstract information like
Karnaugh maps (K-maps), finite state machine diagrams, and waveform analysis. The VerilogEval-Machine benchmarks
showed noticeably more success with generating circuits based on interpreting design specifications, likely due to the
less abstract prompts generated by using an LLM to generate a prompt based only on a final correct circuit.
     RQ6: We found that mixing models, specifically by adding a single final iteration of the more capable GPT-4o model,
resulted in success rates similar to those with only GPT-4o but while requiring only a fraction of the USD cost, which
serves as a proxy metric for the computational complexity. The average number of overall tokens necessary stayed
similar to when only using each of the smaller models, as they were being queried the majority of the time, but the
final iteration of GPT-4o seemed to often be able to leverage those partially functional designs and provide the final
fixes. This cost reduction is also very likely due to the rate of success of the smaller models on their own. They are still
able to inexpensively solve many of the simpler problems without ever getting to the final depth of the search to call
GPT-4o, so the added expense only applied to the hardest to solve problems.

6    Conclusion
Given recent advances in LLM capabilities for both coding and hardware design, it has seemed reasonable to assume that
providing a model feedback on its generated code would improve its performance. However, generating this feedback,
and “explaining” to the model how and why it is wrong, has typically been done with a human engineer—something
costly, nebulous, and potentially slow if the human engineer needs to be able to find and decipher the error on their
own before prompting the LLM. As such, systematic studies in this area have been lacking.
     In this work, we therefore sought to evaluate how a set of modern, state of the art, general knowledge LLMs would
respond to feedback only from EDA tools and testbenches. We sought to discover whether LLMs would be able to solve
bugs in their own generated designs without the assistance of a knowledgeable human. We further asked: If so, how
much effort would it take? How much would it cost? And, are there techniques to improve this process?
     Ultimately, we found that the success of using feedback from tools and testbenches to fix generated Verilog designs
depended largely on the model being used. GPT-4o, the most computationally complex model examined, was able to
consistently use tool and testbench generated feedback to generate correct designs from the VerilogEval benchmark
sets. The smaller models tested, GPT-4o-Mini, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and Claude 3 Haiku, inconsistently benefited from the
tool provided feedback, but, by adding a final evaluation by GPT-4o, were able to create a similar number of correct
circuits at a fraction of the cost of GPT-4o being used alone. We developed and provide AutoChip as an open-source,
extendable framework for evaluating LLMs’ abilities to generate Verilog and correct their mistakes using the output
from tools. This can be leveraged to perform similar analysis on additional models and new benchmarks as they become
available, further building up an understanding for how best to interact with LLMs to generate quality hardware. Our
presented method provides an important and powerful proof-of-concept for effectively utilizing tool feedback with
LLMs for the automatic generation of hardware.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Automatically Improving LLM-based Verilog Generation using EDA Tool Feedback                                                                         25


References
 [1] 2023. Introducing PaLM 2. https://blog.google/technology/ai/google-palm-2-ai-large-language-model/
 [2] Baleegh Ahmad, Shailja Thakur, Benjamin Tan, Ramesh Karri, and Hammond Pearce. 2024. On Hardware Security Bug Code Fixes by Prompting
     Large Language Models. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security 19 (2024), 4043–4057. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIFS.2024.3374558
 [3] Anthropic. 2024. Claude 3 Haiku: our fastest model yet. https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-3-haiku
 [4] Jason Blocklove, Siddharth Garg, Ramesh Karri, and Hammond Pearce. 2023. Chip-Chat: Challenges and Opportunities in Conversational Hardware
     Design. In 2023 ACM/IEEE 5th Workshop on Machine Learning for CAD (MLCAD). 1–6. https://doi.org/10.1109/MLCAD58807.2023.10299874
 [5] Jason Blocklove, Siddharth Garg, Ramesh Karri, and Hammond Pearce. 2024. Evaluating LLMs for Hardware Design and Test. https://doi.org/10.
     48550/arXiv.2405.02326 arXiv:2405.02326 [cs].
 [6] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish
     Sastry, Amanda Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel Ziegler,
     Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter, Chris Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner,
     Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020. Language Models are Few-Shot Learners. In Advances in Neural
     Information Processing Systems, H. Larochelle, M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M. F. Balcan, and H. Lin (Eds.), Vol. 33. Curran Associates, Inc., 1877–1901.
     https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2020/file/1457c0d6bfcb4967418bfb8ac142f64a-Paper.pdf
 [7] Cadence. 2023. Cadence JedAI Generative AI Solution for Chip, System, and Product Design. https://www.cadence.com/en_US/home/solutions/joint-
     enterprise-data-ai-platform.html
 [8] Kaiyan Chang, Ying Wang, Haimeng Ren, Mengdi Wang, Shengwen Liang, Yinhe Han, Huawei Li, and Xiaowei Li. 2023. ChipGPT: How far are we
     from natural language hardware design. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.14019 arXiv:2305.14019 [cs].
 [9] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
     Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray, Nick
     Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings,
     Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang,
     Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain, William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan
     Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish,
     Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. 2021. Evaluating Large Language Models Trained on Code. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2107.03374
     arXiv:2107.03374 [cs].
[10] Luca Collini, Siddharth Garg, and Ramesh Karri. 2024. C2HLSC: Can LLMs Bridge the Software-to-Hardware Design Gap? https://doi.org/10.48550/
     arXiv.2406.09233 arXiv:2406.09233 [cs].
[11] Matthew DeLorenzo, Animesh Basak Chowdhury, Vasudev Gohil, Shailja Thakur, Ramesh Karri, Siddharth Garg, and Jeyavijayan Rajendran. 2024.
     Make Every Move Count: LLM-based High-Quality RTL Code Generation Using MCTS. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.03289 arXiv:2402.03289
     [cs].
[12] Ghada Dessouky, David Gens, Patrick Haney, Garrett Persyn, Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Jason Fung, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi, and Jeyavijayan
     Rajendran. 2019. Hardfails: Insights into Software-Exploitable Hardware Bugs. In Proceedings of the 28th USENIX Conference on Security Symposium
     (SEC’19). USENIX Association, Santa Clara, CA, USA, 213–230.
[13] Yonggan Fu, Yongan Zhang, Zhongzhi Yu, Sixu Li, Zhifan Ye, Chaojian Li, Cheng Wan, and Yingyan Celine Lin. 2023. GPT4AIGChip: Towards
     Next-Generation AI Accelerator Design Automation via Large Language Models. In 2023 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer Aided
     Design (ICCAD). 1–9. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCAD57390.2023.10323953 ISSN: 1558-2434.
[14] GitHub. 2021. GitHub Copilot · Your AI pair programmer. https://copilot.github.com/
[15] Zhuolun He, Haoyuan Wu, Xinyun Zhang, Xufeng Yao, Su Zheng, Haisheng Zheng, and Bei Yu. 2023. ChatEDA: A Large Language Model Powered
     Autonomous Agent for EDA. In 2023 ACM/IEEE 5th Workshop on Machine Learning for CAD (MLCAD). 1–6. https://doi.org/10.1109/MLCAD58807.
     2023.10299852
[16] Hanxian Huang, Zhenghan Lin, Zixuan Wang, Xin Chen, Ke Ding, and Jishen Zhao. 2024. Towards LLM-Powered Verilog RTL Assistant: Self-
     Verification and Self-Correction. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2406.00115 arXiv:2406.00115 [cs].
[17] Rahul Kande, Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, Shailja Thakur, Ramesh Karri, and Jeyavijayan Rajendran. 2024. (Security)
     Assertions by Large Language Models. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security 19 (2024), 4374–4389. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIFS.
     2024.3372809
[18] Mingjie Liu, Teodor-Dumitru Ene, Robert Kirby, Chris Cheng, Nathaniel Pinckney, Rongjian Liang, Jonah Alben, Himyanshu Anand, Sanmitra
     Banerjee, Ismet Bayraktaroglu, Bonita Bhaskaran, Bryan Catanzaro, Arjun Chaudhuri, Sharon Clay, Bill Dally, Laura Dang, Parikshit Deshpande,
     Siddhanth Dhodhi, Sameer Halepete, Eric Hill, Jiashang Hu, Sumit Jain, Brucek Khailany, Kishor Kunal, Xiaowei Li, Hao Liu, Stuart Oberman, Sujeet
     Omar, Sreedhar Pratty, Jonathan Raiman, Ambar Sarkar, Zhengjiang Shao, Hanfei Sun, Pratik P. Suthar, Varun Tej, Kaizhe Xu, and Haoxing Ren.
     2023. ChipNeMo: Domain-Adapted LLMs for Chip Design. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.00176 arXiv:2311.00176 [cs].
[19] Mingjie Liu, Nathaniel Pinckney, Brucek Khailany, and Haoxing Ren. 2023. VerilogEval: Evaluating Large Language Models for Verilog Code
     Generation. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.07544 arXiv:2309.07544 [cs].



                                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
26                                                                                                                                 Blocklove et al.


[20] Shang Liu, Wenji Fang, Yao Lu, Qijun Zhang, Hongce Zhang, and Zhiyao Xie. 2024. RTLCoder: Outperforming GPT-3.5 in Design RTL Generation
     with Our Open-Source Dataset and Lightweight Solution. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2312.08617 arXiv:2312.08617 [cs].
[21] Yao Lu, Shang Liu, Qijun Zhang, and Zhiyao Xie. 2023. RTLLM: An Open-Source Benchmark for Design RTL Generation with Large Language
     Model. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.05345 arXiv:2308.05345 [cs].
[22] Meta. 2023. Introducing Code Llama, an AI Tool for Coding. https://about.fb.com/news/2023/08/code-llama-ai-for-coding/
[23] Mistral. 2023. Mistral 7B. https://mistral.ai/news/announcing-mistral-7b/ Section: news.
[24] OpenAI. [n. d.]. GPT-4o mini: advancing cost-efficient intelligence. https://openai.com/index/gpt-4o-mini-advancing-cost-efficient-intelligence/
[25] OpenAI. 2022. Introducing ChatGPT. https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt
[26] OpenAI. 2024. GPT-4o. https://openai.com/index/hello-gpt-4o/
[27] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama,
     Alex Ray, John Schulman, Jacob Hilton, Fraser Kelton, Luke Miller, Maddie Simens, Amanda Askell, Peter Welinder, Paul F Christiano, Jan Leike,
     and Ryan Lowe. 2022. Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
     Systems, S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal, D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh (Eds.), Vol. 35. Curran Associates, Inc., 27730–27744. https:
     //proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/b1efde53be364a73914f58805a001731-Paper-Conference.pdf
[28] Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, and Ramesh Karri. 2020. DAVE: Deriving Automatically Verilog from English. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM/IEEE
     Workshop on Machine Learning for CAD. ACM, Virtual Event Iceland, 27–32. https://doi.org/10.1145/3380446.3430634
[29] Zehua Pei, Hui-Ling Zhen, Mingxuan Yuan, Yu Huang, and Bei Yu. 2024. BetterV: Controlled Verilog Generation with Discriminative Guidance.
     https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.03375 arXiv:2402.03375 [cs].
[30] Sundar Pichai. 2023. An important next step on our AI journey. https://blog.google/technology/ai/bard-google-ai-search-updates/
[31] Sundar Pichai and Demis Hassabis. 2023. Introducing Gemini: our largest and most capable AI model. https://blog.google/technology/ai/google-
     gemini-ai/
[32] Nathaniel Pinckney, Christopher Batten, Mingjie Liu, Haoxing Ren, and Brucek Khailany. 2024. Revisiting VerilogEval: Newer LLMs, In-Context
     Learning, and Specification-to-RTL Tasks. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2408.11053 arXiv:2408.11053 [cs].
[33] RapidSilicon. 2023. RapidGPT. https://rapidsilicon.com/rapidgpt/
[34] Synopsys. 2023. Redefining Chip Design with AI-Powered EDA Tools | Synopsys.ai | Synopsys Blog. https://www.synopsys.com/blogs/chip-
     design/synopsys-ai-eda-tools.html
[35] Shailja Thakur, Baleegh Ahmad, Zhenxing Fan, Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, Ramesh Karri, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, and Siddharth Garg. 2023.
     Benchmarking Large Language Models for Automated Verilog RTL Code Generation. In 2023 Design, Automation & Test in Europe Conference &
     Exhibition (DATE). 1–6. https://doi.org/10.23919/DATE56975.2023.10137086 ISSN: 1558-1101.
[36] Shailja Thakur, Jason Blocklove, Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, Siddharth Garg, and Ramesh Karri. 2023. AutoChip: Automating HDL Generation
     Using LLM Feedback. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.04887 arXiv:2311.04887 [cs].
[37] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is
     All you Need. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Vol. 30. Curran Associates, Inc. https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2017/
     hash/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Abstract.html
[38] Yuan Wang, Xuyang Wu, Hsin-Tai Wu, Zhiqiang Tao, and Yi Fang. 2024. Do Large Language Models Rank Fairly? An Empirical Study on the
     Fairness of LLMs as Rankers. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
     Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers), Kevin Duh, Helena Gomez, and Steven Bethard (Eds.). Association for Computational
     Linguistics, Mexico City, Mexico, 5712–5724. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.naacl-long.319
[39] Stephen Williams. 2023. The ICARUS Verilog Compilation System. https://github.com/steveicarus/iverilog original-date: 2008-05-12T16:57:52Z.
[40] Henry Wong. 2017. HDLBits Problem Sets. https://hdlbits.01xz.net/wiki/Problem_sets
[41] Yang Zhao, Di Huang, Chongxiao Li, Pengwei Jin, Ziyuan Nan, Tianyun Ma, Lei Qi, Yansong Pan, Zhenxing Zhang, Rui Zhang, Xishan Zhang,
     Zidong Du, Qi Guo, Xing Hu, and Yunji Chen. 2024. CodeV: Empowering LLMs for Verilog Generation through Multi-Level Summarization.
     https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.10424 arXiv:2407.10424 [cs].




Manuscript submitted to ACM
