                                         MacroAgent: Regularity-Aware Macro Legalization with
                                         LLM-Agent-Designed Contour Algorithms

                                         JIAXI JIANG, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
                                         XUFENG YAO, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
                                         YUXUAN ZHAO, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
                                         YUNTAO LU, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
                                         PEIYU LIAO, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
arXiv:2608.24946v1 [cs.LG] 24 Aug 2026




                                         ZUODONG ZHANG, Peking University
                                         YIBO LIN, Peking University
                                         BEI YU, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
                                         Macros constitute a large part of the core area in modern very large-scale integration (VLSI) designs. Moreover,
                                         macro positions have a significant impact on the final quality of result (QoR), and macro legalization is
                                         typically the final step in determining the macro positions. However, existing approaches related to macro
                                         legalization either lack robustness or incur substantial computational costs or neglect the regularity between
                                         macros. To address these limitations, we introduce MacroAgent. The novel framework is a four-stage approach:
                                         clustering, contour generation, template matching, and inter-cluster refinement. We propose leveraging Large
                                         Language Models (LLMs) to discover multiple, effective heuristic regularity-aware contour algorithms. This
                                         framework successfully generates robust and effective algorithmic solutions for macro legalization. Compared
                                         with state-of-the-art macro legalization works, experimental results on TILOS and Chipyard benchmarks
                                         demonstrate a 2 to 8 fold improvement in layout regularity, a 3% to 5% reduction in routed wirelength with
                                         comparable congestion after global routing, and significantly better robustness with an acceptable runtime.
                                         Furthermore, end-to-end evaluation through Cadence Innovus place-and-route confirms that the regularity
                                         improvements translate into tangible PPA gains, including 2.9% lower routed wirelength and 68.3% TNS
                                         improvement over the DREAMPlace macro legalization baseline; it also achieves 1.8% lower routed wirelength
                                         when integrated into the Innovus macro placement flow.
                                         CCS Concepts: • Hardware → Software tools for EDA; Methodologies for EDA.

                                         Additional Key Words and Phrases: Design Automation, Physical Design, Macro Legalization
                                         ACM Reference Format:
                                         Jiaxi Jiang, Xufeng Yao, Yuxuan Zhao, Yuntao Lu, Peiyu Liao, Zuodong Zhang, Yibo Lin, and Bei Yu. 2026.
                                         MacroAgent: Regularity-Aware Macro Legalization with LLM-Agent-Designed Contour Algorithms . ACM
                                         Trans. Des. Autom. Electron. Syst. 1, 1 (August 2026), 27 pages. https://doi.org/doi.org/10.1145/XXXXXXX.
                                         XXXXXXX

                                         1   INTRODUCTION
                                         Macros in very large-scale integration (VLSI) circuits, such as memory and spatial arrays, are pre-
                                         designed giant functional blocks. They have fixed dimensions (e.g., height and width) and optimized
                                         structures. Macro placement heavily constrains subsequent standard-cell optimization, which in
                                         turn indirectly impacts power, performance, and area by affecting the routed wirelength [1]. Macro

                                         Authors’ addresses: Jiaxi Jiang, The Chinese University of Hong Kong; Xufeng Yao, The Chinese University of Hong Kong;
                                         Yuxuan Zhao, The Chinese University of Hong Kong; Yuntao Lu, The Chinese University of Hong Kong; Peiyu Liao, The
                                         Chinese University of Hong Kong; Zuodong Zhang, Peking University; Yibo Lin, Peking University; Bei Yu, The Chinese
                                         University of Hong Kong.

                                         2026. 1084-4309/2026/8-ART $15.00
                                         https://doi.org/doi.org/10.1145/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX


                                                                                                   1
  Traditional Marco Legalization


                                  Displacement Optimization with
                                          No Regularity

  Macro Placement                                                               Legal Macro Placement
   with Overlap                                                                  Ignoring Regularity

  Proposed MarcoAgent Legalization
                                                     LLM Agent
                                                       Design

                                         Contour     Template
                           Clustering                           Refinement
                                        Generation   Matching

  Macro Placement            Regularity-Aware Contour Algorithms
                                                                              Legal Macro Placement
   with Overlap                        Designed by LLM
                                                                          with Engineer-Level Regularity
Fig. 1. The MacroAgent framework consisting of four-stage legalization steps. MacroAgent achieves engineer-
level regularity macro legalization results by regularity-aware contour algorithms designed by the LLM agent.


legalization represents the final phase that determines legal macro positions at the end of macro
placement process.
   Traditionally, the physical design procedure for VLSI circuits is composed of multiple stages,
including floorplan, macro placement, standard-cell placement, and routing. Macro placement
occupies an early position in the design process and has a significant influence on subsequent
phases [2]. Moreover, due to the large size of macros, minor position adjustments can significantly
impact downstream optimizations [3].
   The research literature categorizes macro placement into two main categories. The first is
mixed-size global placement (placing macros and standard-cells together, rough locations), then
macro legalization (overlap removal) [3–9]. During the first step, overlap constraints are relaxed,
multiple objectives are considered. Then macro legalization removes remaining overlaps. The second
category utilizes layout data structures to directly place macros, optimize customized objectives via
simulated annealing [10–14]. The first category is faster than simulated annealing in the second,
which is less scalable [5, 15]. In industry practice, macro placement relies on both senior engineers’
expertise (e.g., manual placement) and algorithmic efforts [5]. Complex projects may take hours to
days [5]. The industrial tool, Innovus, offers a flow similar to the first macro placement method in the
research literature, with two commands: place_design -concurrent_macro (mixed-size
global placement) and then refine_macro_place (macro legalization) [15].
Current Approaches to Macro Legalization. Most prior works in macro legalization only
attempt to minimize the displacement (i.e., the movements of macros). [16] proposes a legalization
scheme that computes macro coordinates through the iterative adjustment of two constraint graphs,
minimizing displacement by solving the linear programming problem. [4] extracts search points
and feasible regions using the Puzzle algorithm, and iteratively places macros. DREAMPlace 2.0 [17]
combines the two techniques mentioned above and has been applied in [3, 5, 9]. The work in [6]
designed an occupancy-aware macro legalization algorithm that iteratively eliminates overlaps via
heuristic approaches. The study in [7] employs integer linear programming or simulated annealing

                                                      2
                                             Cells Traped in Channel           Large Deadspace
Fig. 2. Consequences of ignoring regularity in macro legalization (red giant rectangles are macros, blue tiny
points are cells). Both situations worsen the wirelength.



                                                                                                   Channel
                    Irregular Placement                            Regular Placement
                         4 Channel                                    2 Channel
                                                                                                    Macro

                             Fig. 3. Channel-based macro regularity examples.



to adjust macro positional relationships when initial sequence pairs prove infeasible. Although
these techniques can improve the robustness of macro legalization, they still fall short in two
aspects: first, they overlook the regularity between macros; second, they lack robustness
since only one or two heuristics cannot fit all different testcases in macro legalization.
Regularity-Aware Macro Placement. Among prior works on macro placement, there is a common
focus on macro regularity. Studies have confirmed that such regularity reduces wirelength and
minimizes deadspace [4], although the definition of regularity in these studies is quite different. [11]
uses cost models for macro grouping and regularity penalties, demonstrating a significant reduction
in wirelength. [13, 14] exploit RTL hierarchy information to cluster macros and arrange them in
regular patterns. [3] defined macro regularity as the necessity for macros to be surrounded by
other macros or die boundaries, identify irregular placements and adjust. The MaskRegulate [8]
method implements a reinforcement learning policy as a regulator to adjust existing layouts. [4]
extract macros of the same type and similar levels, arrange them in array form. They consider
regularity during refinement or directly place macros. However, no academic work directly
considers regularity in the final legalization stage in macro placement. Only industrial
tool Innovus provides an option place_global_align_macro to achieve regular macro
legalization [15]. It is important to differentiate our legalization-focused approach from constructive
regular placement methods [4, 8, 11, 13, 14]. While constructive methods enforce patterns early,
modern mixed-size global placement tends to disrupt these pre-defined patterns during optimization,
so they need to keep the macros fixed. Therefore, we do not aim to compete with placement
algorithms in generating the initial structure; rather, we propose an essential complementary
capability: recovering and enforcing regularity during the final legalization stage, similar to the
place_global_align_macro flow in Innovus [15].
Regularity Metrics. Although regularity is essential for macro placement, there is no
universally accepted definition. Earlier studies by [4, 13, 14] mainly characterize regularity via
array-based placement configurations. [3, 8, 11] define regularity by the proximity of macros to
chip boundaries or the presence of other macros in specific vicinities.

                                                      3
   We generally adhere to the perspective in [14] that mandating macro placement at the
layout periphery is no longer feasible, as this increases the required stack depth of macros.
However, in [4, 13, 14], they constrain macros to a strictly array-based form, with no metric to
evaluate their regularity.
   We introduce a quantitative macro regularity metric by counting channels between macros,
aligned with previous studies [4, 13, 14]. This metric reflects these physical design principles:
excessive channels increase deadspace and restrict standard-cell placement optimization. As shown
in Fig. 2, the cells trapped in the channels between macros are less likely to jump out of the channels,
due to the density constraint [3]. It is also evident that the deadspaces between macros increase the
wirelength. Our approach assigns peak regularity scores to squares and high scores to rectangles,
supporting established array-based placement methods [4, 13, 14]. Fig. 3 indicates the number of
channels under irregular and regular placement, which reveals that the number of channels is the
smallest in the case of array-based placement. For normalization, after counting the channels, we
divide the theoretical smallest possible number of channels by the acquired number. The number is
less than 1, where the closer the index value is to 1, the higher the regularity achieved. We achieve a
theoretical minimum number of channels when arranging macros in a square array. The following
formula can obtain a rough estimation:
                                          √︁
                                     𝑎 = ⌊ 𝑁 macro ⌋, 𝐶 min = 2𝑎 − 2,                               (1)
where 𝑁 macro is the number of macros, 𝑎 is the side length lower bound of the square array, and
𝐶 min is the theoretical minimum number of channels. Intuitively, we need at least 𝑎 − 1 channels to
separate the macros into 𝑎 rows and another 𝑎 − 1 channels to separate the macros into 𝑎 columns.
Any irregular placement introduces extra channels. Finally, the regularity index is defined as:
                                                     𝐶 min
                                              𝑅=             ,                                      (2)
                                                    𝐶 actual
where 𝐶 actual is the actual number of channels. To compute 𝐶 actual , we construct a Hanan grid from
all macro vertex coordinates, mark occupied cells, and iteratively merge adjacent empty cells into
maximal rectangular strips. An empty cell at a crossing point may participate in merges in both
directions simultaneously. The number of resulting strips yields 𝐶 actual ; details are provided in
Section 2. Fig. 3 also exhibits that the theoretical minimum number of channels is 2. The regularity
indices are 0.5 and 1 for the left and right cases, respectively.
Large Language Models for Algorithm Design. Large Language Models (LLMs) have drawn
much research attention for their great performance in various cognitive tasks [18–23]. In Electronic
Design Automation (EDA), more researchers are using LLMs as research tools [24–26], in script/RTL
generation, circuit design, and QA systems.
   Traditional automated algorithm design methods, such as genetic programming (GP) [27], require
defining a set of allowed mutation operations (or primitives). Designing such a suitable set of
primitives is non-trivial and remains an open challenge in practice [28]. Reinforcement learning
(RL) has also been applied to algorithm design, including program superoptimization [29] and
discovering faster assembly-level sorting algorithms [30]. However, RL-based approaches require
human experts to carefully design the action spaces, and this design becomes difficult for higher-
level programming languages [23]. Moreover, RL models are trained on specific tasks and do not
readily generalize to other problems. In contrast, LLMs have been trained on vast amounts of code
and have learned common patterns and routines from human-designed programs. By leveraging this
knowledge together with prompt-provided context, LLMs can generate more effective suggestions
than the random mutations typically used in GP [23]. Furthermore, LLMs do not require a predefined
action space or mutation operations, offering greater flexibility to explore a larger search space.

                                                   4
   Recently, there is growing interest in LLM-based algorithm design [31–34]. LLMs play various
roles, such as evaluators and optimization engines. The most promising is using LLMs to directly
design algorithm components (heuristic methods) for NP-hard problems [31]. In EDA, the direct use
of LLMs for algorithm design is underexplored; only [35] has attempted to enhance global placement
algorithms via iterative LLM implementation, using crafted prompts and an LLM-based genetic
process, but lacking meaningful feedback (only wirelength). AlphaEvolve [36] combines LLMs with
evolutionary search and achieves impressive results in mathematics and algorithm optimization,
where LLMs already possess sufficient knowledge from pretraining. However, applying LLMs
to specialized fields like EDA, where they lack domain expertise, presents a distinct challenge.
SATLUTION [37] targets NP-complete SAT problems and demonstrates that LLMs can handle
substantial code generation at scale. Nevertheless, as the authors discuss in the appendix, human
guidance is still incorporated to manually direct higher-level algorithmic strategies while leaving
the lower-level implementation to the LLM agent. GPU Kernel Scientist [38] tunes existing GPU
optimization techniques (e.g., increasing thread block occupancy and resolving shared memory
conflicts) to find the best kernel for specific hardware, rather than discovering new algorithms.
Our work differs from these approaches in three key aspects: (1) we introduce a domain-agnostic
abstraction that reformulates the EDA-specific problem into a geometric problem. Domain-specific
decisions such as clustering strategy and optimization objective selection are encoded in the
framework by human engineers, while the LLM operates solely on the abstracted geometric
subproblem using a general-purpose, off-the-shelf model without any domain-specific fine-tuning.
(2) Our LLM autonomously discovers both algorithm ideas and implementations without human
strategy guidance in the intermediate process. (3) The manageable scale of macro legalization
instances enables us to provide human-crafted solution samples and per-iteration visual feedback
to the LLM, allowing it to understand why a solution is good or bad rather than relying solely on
scalar metrics.
   Despite their promising potential, significant limitations persist in employing LLMs for advanced
algorithm design: they struggle with complex algorithm implementations and lack domain-specific
expertise for specialized optimization tasks [32].
Motivation. In the EDA domain, the majority of problems are NP-hard. Researchers have histor-
ically developed numerous heuristic algorithms to address these challenges. Specifically within
macro legalization, previous researchers have designed sophisticated heuristics for macro clus-
tering, placement selection, and perturbation techniques to optimize solution quality. It naturally
raises a fundamental question: Can LLMs effectively replace human experts in designing heuristic
algorithms for such problems?
Our Contribution. To address these challenges, we propose a robust regularity-aware macro
legalization framework with four stages. Our framework decomposes the macro legalization process
into four sequential components of clustering, regularity-aware contour generation, template-based
macro matching, and inter-cluster refinement as shown in Fig. 1. Compared with the traditional
legalization methods, our methods are more robust through the combination of multiple
heuristic LLM-designed contour algorithms. It achieves simultaneous regular macro
legalization while minimizing the displacement through template matching. To mitigate
the limitations of LLMs in EDA domains, we extract a domain-agnostic geometry problem and
present LLMs with the engineers’ manual macro legalization solutions, which address gaps in
domain knowledge and simplify the original problem. This enables fast, automatic, and diverse
heuristics findings in an offline manner to fit different input testcases (no human intervention in the
intermediate process). Notably, the hard testcases used for final validation are distinct from those


                                                   5
utilized to guide LLMs in heuristic discovery, effectively demonstrating the strong generalization
capability of LLM generated heuristics. We validate MacroAgent under two experimental flows.
In the academic flow (DREAMPlace + HeLEM-GR), MacroAgent reduces routed wirelength by
3%–5% with comparable congestion on both TILOS and Chipyard benchmarks. In the industrial
flow (Cadence Innovus place-and-route), MacroAgent achieves 2.9% lower routed wirelength, 68.3%
TNS improvement, and comparable power over the DREAMPlace macro legalization baseline; it
also achieves 1.8% lower routed wirelength when integrated into the Innovus macro placement
flow.
   We organize the rest of the paper as follows: Section 2 introduces the rise of LLM agents in
algorithm design and the problem definition of macro legalization. Section 3 introduces the proposed
macro legalization framework. Section 4 introduces the implementation details of the proposed
macro legalization framework. Section 5 presents the experimental results. Section 6 concludes the
paper.

2     PRELIMINARIES
2.1    LLM Agents for Algorithm Design
An LLM agent is an AI that uses LLMs to autonomously perform tasks by reasoning, taking step-
by-step actions, and leveraging tools. Currently, LLM agents are revolutionizing algorithm design
through automated code generation and optimization. Recent studies [32] identify several distinct
roles that LLMs play in algorithm design: (1) LLM as optimizer: OPRO [33] uses LLMs to directly
generate and refine solutions through prompt-based optimization, treating the LLM itself as the
search operator; (2) LLM as evaluator: Jawahar et al. [34] leverage LLM performance predictors
as initializers for neural architecture search, where the LLM assesses candidate quality rather than
generating algorithms; (3) LLM as heuristic generator: this is the most promising paradigm
for NP-hard problems, where LLMs generate complete algorithm code within an evolutionary
framework. Google’s FunSearch [23] and AlphaEvolve [36] exemplify this third paradigm, demon-
strating AI’s capacity to discover and refine algorithms across scientific and engineering domains.
EoH [31] further advances this direction by evolving both algorithmic ideas and their implementa-
tions simultaneously. The core idea is evolutionary code generation and evaluation. LLM agents
autonomously generate, modify, and evolve complete algorithm code over multiple iterations.
And evaluation systems guide the algorithmic evolution process toward better solutions. This
methodology essentially creates a self-improving cycle to continuously refine results. Traditional
automated algorithm design methods rely on genetic programming or reinforcement learning,
both of which require experts to design the mutation operations or action spaces. In contrast, LLM
agents directly generate algorithms within the algorithm space using high-level programming
languages. In EDA, EvoPlace [35] applies this paradigm to global placement by iteratively evolving
placement heuristics via LLM-based code generation.

2.2    Macro Legalization Problem Formulation
Problem 1. Given macro positions after mixed-size placement 𝑀 = {𝑚 1, 𝑚 2, · · · , 𝑚𝑛 }, where each
macro 𝑚𝑖 has (1) initial coordinates (𝑥𝑖′, 𝑦𝑖′ ) (representing bottom-left corner), (2) fixed dimensions:
width 𝑤𝑖 and height ℎ𝑖 . Find legal macro positions {(𝑥 1, 𝑦1 ), (𝑥 2, 𝑦2 ), · · · , (𝑥𝑛 , 𝑦𝑛 )} that:
    (1) No Overlap: For any two distinct macros 𝑚𝑖 , 𝑚 𝑗 ∈ 𝑀, there is no overlap between them, as
        depicted in Equation (3).
                                                                                     
                   [𝑥𝑖 , 𝑥𝑖 + 𝑤𝑖 ] × [𝑦𝑖 , 𝑦𝑖 + ℎ𝑖 ] ∩ 𝑥 𝑗 , 𝑥 𝑗 + 𝑤 𝑗 × 𝑦 𝑗 , 𝑦 𝑗 + ℎ 𝑗 = ∅,         (3)

                                                       6
    (2) Minimum Displacement: Minimize the total Manhattan displacement of all macros. The
        displacement of 𝑚𝑖 is |𝑥𝑖′ − 𝑥𝑖 | + |𝑦𝑖′ − 𝑦𝑖 |, so the displacement objective is
                                           𝑛
                                          ∑︁
                                                |𝑥𝑖′ − 𝑥𝑖 | + |𝑦𝑖′ − 𝑦𝑖 | ,
                                                                         
                                    min                                                             (4)
                                          𝑖=1

    (3) Maximum Regularity: Regularity index 𝑅 is quantified by the channel ratio metric. For a
        macro placement, 𝑅 is defined as:

                                                      𝐶 min
                                                𝑅=            ,                                     (5)
                                                     𝐶 actual

       where 𝐶 min refers to the theoretical minimum number of channels and 𝐶 actual is the actual
       number of channels.
       Channel Counting Method: To compute 𝐶 actual in practice, we employ a Hanan-grid-based
       procedure. First, we collect all 𝑥- and 𝑦-coordinates of every macro vertex and construct a
       Hanan grid, i.e., a rectilinear grid whose lines pass through every macro boundary. Each grid
       cell occupied by a macro is marked as occupied; the remaining cells are empty. We then
       iteratively merge adjacent empty cells into maximal rectangular strips: vertically adjacent
       empty cells sharing the same width are merged, and horizontally adjacent empty cells sharing
       the same height are merged. An empty cell at a channel crossing point may participate in
       merges in both directions simultaneously (i.e., it is shared by multiple strips rather than
       consumed by one). The merging repeats until no further merges are possible, and the number
       of resulting merged strips equals 𝐶 actual . This method naturally handles general layouts: more
       irregular placements produce more fragmented strips, yielding higher 𝐶 actual and thus lower
       regularity index 𝑅.

3     ALGORITHM DESIGN
3.1    Overview of MacroAgent
Our proposed macro legalization consists of four principal components: size-aware distance-based
clustering, regularity-aware contour generation, template-based macro matching, and inter-cluster
refinement. We identify regularity-aware contour generation as the most influential component, as
it directly enables macros within a cluster to be arranged in a highly regular configuration. We
employ an LLM agent to optimize this critical component. This choice follows the LLM-based
algorithm discovery paradigm [23, 36], which requires an automated evaluator for the iterative
generate-evaluate loop. Matching already admits an optimal solution via the Hungarian algorithm,
leaving no room for improvement. Clustering lacks a direct quality metric: its output can only be
assessed after running the downstream pipeline, whose key component (contour generation) is
itself heuristic. This makes the end-to-end result quality unreliable and creates a credit assignment
problem that hinders LLM optimization. In contrast, contour generation’s immediate downstream
is matching, which is optimally solved by the Hungarian algorithm; therefore, the result quality of
a contour algorithm can be evaluated directly and reliably via regularity and displacement metrics.
Overview. The cluster step determines which macros are suitable for regular placement. The use
of regularity-aware contour generation helps achieve regularity and diverse regular patterns for
robustness; template-based macro matching can minimize displacements; and inter-cluster refinement
further ensures no overlap — all of these techniques working together to generate high-quality macro
legalization results.

                                                      7
3.2   Size-Aware Distance-Based Clustering
Consistent with prior research, we first cluster macros. Previous approaches usually determine
clustering by macro dimensions, interconnection relationships, positions in the placement prototype,
or hierarchical associations [4, 11, 13, 14]. Our clustering method simplifies this by considering
only macro dimensions and positions in the placement prototype, as interconnection relationships
were partly accounted for in the mixed-size global placement stage. Since many similar heuristic
algorithms have been proposed before, we utilize established methods instead of LLM-based
approaches for this algorithm design.

Algorithm 1 Size-Aware Distance-Based Macro Clustering.
Input: Macro set M, size grouping factor 𝛼, proximity factor 𝛽
Output: Assignment of macros to clusters
  1: 𝑐𝑙𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟𝐼 𝐷 ← 0;
  2: Size grouping: 𝑔𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑝𝑠 ← group macros by size using 𝛼;
  3: for each size group 𝑔 ∈ 𝑔𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑝𝑠 do
  4:     construct KD-tree from macro center points;
  5:     for each unvisited macro 𝑚 ∈ 𝑔 do
  6:        𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡 ← 𝑐𝑙𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟𝐼 𝐷 then increment 𝑐𝑙𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟𝐼 𝐷;
  7:         BFS traversal of neighboring macros;
  8:          For current macro 𝑚𝑐 , calculate 𝑇𝑥 = 𝑤 (𝑚𝑐 ) · 𝛽, 𝑇𝑦 = ℎ(𝑚𝑐 ) · 𝛽;
  9:          Find all macros within horizontal distance 𝑇𝑥 and vertical distance 𝑇𝑦 ;
 10:          Assign them to 𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡 and continue traversal;
 11:     end for
 12: end for


   Algorithm 1 comprises two procedures: dimensional classification and spatial clustering. The
algorithm first utilizes parameter 𝛼 to partition macros based on dimensional similarity. Dividing the
macro width and height by 𝛼, yields dimension identifiers, which are then used to group macros with
close dimensions. Subsequently, within each dimensional group, the algorithm employs parameter
𝛽 in conjunction with a KD-tree to perform proximity-based clustering. In our experiments, we fix
𝛼 = 10 and 𝛽 = 1.5. Specifically, 𝛼 = 10 means that we treat macros’ size difference less than 10 site
width as the same size (as DREAMPlace scales site width to 1). 𝛽 = 1.5 means that we consider
macros with a distance less than 1.5 times their respective sizes as neighboring macros. In pilot
trials on the easy cases, we observed that modest variations around these values only lead to slight
changes in cluster granularity. Notably, we implement adaptive proximity thresholds (𝑇𝑥 and 𝑇𝑦 )
that are proportional to macro’s dimension sizes, enabling larger macros to have expanded search
domains. In comparison, smaller macros maintain narrower search scopes. This clustering efficiently
aggregates macros with similar dimensions and spatial proximity into clusters. Note that 𝛼 serves
solely as a grouping granularity for this clustering stage; once clusters are formed, all subsequent
stages—contour generation (Section 3.3), template generation, and macro matching—operate on the
original, unscaled macro dimensions. Likewise, the regularity metric 𝑅 in Equation (5) and channel
counting are evaluated using the actual macro sizes and legalized positions.

3.3   Regularity-Aware Contour Generation
Regularity-aware contour generation is the key step to achieve high regularity while minimizing
displacement. Previous research tends to place the clustered macros in a rectangular formation [4, 13,
14]. In other words, the contour of the macro cluster is a rectangle, as it is the simplest regular shape.

                                                    8
         (a) Initial                 (b) Grid                (c) Alpha shape                 (d) MST




          (e) Initial                 (f) Grid               (g) Alpha shape                (h) MST
Fig. 4. Visualizations of different contour algorithms in Ariane133: (top row) contour visualization and
(bottom row) layout after standard-cell placement (red for macros; blue for standard cells). From left to right,
regularity decreases, but displacement improves. Initial is for original global placement outputs, and Grid,
Alpha shape, and MST are for different legalization results.



However, our empirical observations reveal that many macro clusters after mixed-size placement
exhibit contours that deviate significantly from rectangular shapes as shown in top-left figure in
Fig. 4. Enforcing rectangular arrangements of macro clusters often results in displacement-induced
degradation of design quality. Consequently, we propose generating diverse regularity-aware
contours based on the outline morphology of macro clusters after mixed-size placement. The
regularity part of contour algorithms lies in the removal of some burrs on the contour, as shown in
Fig. 4. The fewer burrs, the better the regularity, but the worse the displacement. We compare
the manual designed rectangle contour heuristic with LLM-designed contour generation
heuristics in the experiments Fig. 13 to prove that LLM-designed methods can achieve
better design quality.
Necessity of Multiple Contours.. The reason for diverse contours is that regularity and dis-
placement are conflicting, so we need to trade them off; furthermore, there are no direct analytical
solutions to guide this trade-off (only evident after standard-cell placement). We here present
the results of Ariane133 under different contours. Fig. 4 shows the three macro legalization
results generated for Ariane133. The picture on the far left is the result of an initial mixed-size
placement. The three pictures on the right are the results generated by three different contour
algorithms, respectively. Smoothing contour burrs improves the channel metric (higher regularity)
but typically increases macro displacement; different contours (Grid, Alpha-shape, MST) realize
different points on this trade-off frontier.
LLM Agent-Based Contour Algorithm Generation Flow. Fig. 5 demonstrates the end-to-end
workflow for discovering contour-generation algorithms with the proposed LLM agent. Prompts and

                                                       9
      Initial Input Prompts                                        Iterative Generation                                 Generated Contour Algorithms


                                                                                     Algorithm Database                       def contour[signature]:
                                                                                                                                  """Alpha Shape"""
  ## Task                                                               Sample    Algorithm Ideas:                     Pick       ap = array(points)
  …                                                                                                                               tri = Delaunay(ap)
  ## Context
                                                                                                                                  …
  …                                                                                                                               return
  ## Usage Scenario                                                              Algorithm Codes:
                                                     Algorithm Idea                                                           unary_union(triangles)
  …                                        Core Idea:
  ### Goal                                 1. Delaunay Triangulation:
  …                                        2. Circumradius Filtering:
  ### Process                                                                    Evaluation Results:                          def contour[signature]:
                                           3. Alpha Value Control:               [previous regularity, displacement,
  …                                        4. Boundary Formation:
                                                                                                                                   “””Grid Based"""
  ## Quality Metrics                                                              visualisations]                                  grid =
                                                                                                                              create_grid_over_bounds
  …                                                                                                                              …
  ## Input and Reference Rectangles                                                                                                return
  {files and pictures}:                               Algorithm Code                          Evaluation Results              hull.intersection(unary_un
                                                                                                                              ion(polygons))
                                           def create_contour(corners, centers,                Regularity: 0.629.
 Input Rectangles   Reference Rectangles   polygons) -> Polygon:                              Displacement: 1348
                                               """
                                               [detailed documents]                          Visualization (picture):         def contour[signature]:
                                               """                                                                                 “””MST Concave"""
                                               P = corners + centers                                                               G =
                                               # Target area for minimum-area guard                                           nx.complete_graph(len(poin
                                               A_target = sum(p.area for p in polygons)                                       ts))
                                               # 1) Delaunay triangulation
                                               tri = Delaunay(P)                                                                  …
                                               # 2/3) Circumradius + alpha filtering                                          for u, v in mst.edges()]
                                               …                                                                                  return
                                               # 4) Boundary formation                                                        unary_union(lines)
                                               return unary_union(keep) #union
                                           triangles



Fig. 5. LLM agent-based contour algorithm generation flow. Key components: (1) Input Prompt:
Contains task description, metrics (regularity, displacement), previous ideas/code, evolution directive
(E1/E2/M1/M2/M3), and reference solutions; (2) LLM Agent: Processes the prompt and generates new
algorithm ideas and executable Python code; (3) Code Execution: Runs the generated contour algorithm
on test cases; (4) Evaluation: Computes regularity and displacement metrics, generates visualizations; (5)
Algorithm Database: Stores successful algorithms that outperform existing ones on any test case; (6)
Feedback Loop: Results feed back into the next iteration’s prompt to guide further evolution.




code are simplified due to page size limits. Initially, we craft a comprehensive prompt that specifies
(1) task, (2) usage scenario, (3) quality metrics (regularity, displacement), (4) prior ideas/code, (5)
evolution directive (one of E1/E2/M1/M2/M3), (6) outcomes, and (7) reference manual legalization
solutions. The content of the simplified version of the “initial input prompt” is shown in Fig. 6. At
the first initialize round, the “previous idea” is the simple rectangle contour generation algorithm:
it computes the bounding box of the macro cluster, scales the rectangle to match the cluster’s area,
and recenters it on the cluster.
   Specifically, the workflow in Fig. 5 comprises six key components: (1) Input Prompt encapsulates
the complete problem specification fed to the LLM, including the task description, evaluation
metrics, prior algorithm ideas and code, an evolution directive, and reference solutions (detailed
below with Fig. 6); (2) LLM Agent receives the assembled prompt and generates a new algorithm:
a natural-language idea describing the heuristic logic, together with an executable Python code
implementation of the contour generation function; (3) Code Execution runs the generated contour
algorithm on the macro cluster testcases, producing contour polygons that are subsequently used
for template generation and macro matching; (4) Evaluation computes the regularity metric
𝑅 and displacement for each testcase and generates layout visualizations, enabling quantitative
comparison against existing algorithms; (5) Algorithm Database archives every algorithm whose
regularity or displacement outperforms all existing entries on at least one testcase, forming a
growing Pareto-front repository; (6) Feedback Loop feeds the evaluation results and the current
algorithm database back into the next iteration’s prompt, allowing the LLM to learn from prior
successes and failures and progressively refine its designs.

                                                                            10
                                             Initial Input Prompts
             ## Task
             Write a Python class in `{file}.py` named `ConcaveHullGenerator`. Implement this method
             using shapely without changing the signature, specifically treating corners and centers as
             lists of (x,y) coordinates and polygons as Shapely objects, to generate a robust enclosing
             contour…
             ## Context
             - **Previous method ideas**: {ideas}
             - **Previous results**: {displacement}, {regularity_index}, {solutions} and {visualization}
             - **Evolution direct**: [E1/E2/M1/M2/M3][detailed instructions about evolution directions]
             ## Usage Scenario
             [input descriptions]
             ### Goal
             [detailed class requirements ]
             ### Process
             [detailed procedures that how this class is used]
             ## Quality Metrics
             [displacement and similarity]
             ## Input and Reference Rectangles {files and pictures}:
             …

Fig. 6. Simplified version of the “initial input prompt” for LLM agent-based contour algorithm generation.
Main sections: (1) Task Description: Defines the contour generation problem and its role in macro legalization;
(2) Metrics: Specifies regularity (channel count) and displacement objectives; (3) Previous Ideas: Provides
natural-language descriptions of prior algorithms (e.g., rectangle, convex hull); (4) Previous Code: Shows
executable Python implementations of prior algorithms; (5) Evolution Strategy: Instructs the LLM on how to
modify/improve (E1: explore diversity, E2: synthesize and innovate, M1: fix weaknesses, M2: tune parameters,
M3: simplify); (6) Reference Solutions: Includes manual legalization examples to guide the LLM toward
practical solutions.

                                Macro                   Contour              Template




              …                         …                       …                         …                 …



      Initial               Contours               Templates                Bipartite             Placement
    Placement              Generation             Generation                Matching             Candidates
Fig. 7. Template-based macro matching. The process consists of three stages: (1) a regularity-aware contour
is generated around the macro cluster; (2) a uniform grid template is tiled inside the contour and feasible grid
cells are selected; (3) macros are assigned to grid positions via the Hungarian algorithm to minimize total
displacement.


   Fig. 6 shows a simplified version of the input prompt, which is organized into six sections:
(1) Task Description defines the contour generation problem: given a set of macro positions and
dimensions within a cluster, produce a closed rectilinear polygon that encloses the macros with
appropriate regularity. (2) Metrics specifies the two optimization objectives: regularity (measured
by the channel count ratio 𝑅) and displacement (Manhattan distance from original positions),
establishing the evaluation criteria the LLM must optimize. (3) Previous Ideas provides natural-
language descriptions of prior contour algorithms (e.g., rectangle bounding box, convex hull, alpha
shape), giving the LLM conceptual building blocks to draw upon or diverge from. (4) Previous Code
includes the executable Python implementations corresponding to the previous ideas, enabling
the LLM to understand concrete implementation patterns and reuse effective code structures.

                                                         11
(5) Evolution Strategy instructs the LLM on how to modify or improve the previous algorithms
using one of five directives adopted from [31]. Two are exploration strategies: E1 selects 𝑝 parent
heuristics and asks the LLM to generate a maximally different new heuristic; E2 first summarizes
the common ideas behind 𝑝 parents and then creates a new heuristic that builds on those shared
insights yet diverges substantially. Three are modification strategies: M1 selects a single parent
and asks the LLM to diagnose its weaknesses and revise both idea and code; M2 adjusts only
the parameters of a single parent while preserving its algorithmic structure; M3 identifies and
removes redundant components to simplify the implementation. (6) Reference Solutions includes
manually crafted macro legalization examples for the testcases, providing the LLM with concrete
targets that demonstrate what high-quality placements look like and guiding it toward practically
effective contour shapes.
   Then, we design a generation flow that evolves both ideas and code via the agent flow adopted
from [31]. The process jointly optimizes ideas (natural-language heuristic logic) and code (exe-
cutable Python functions) under an initialize → generate → evaluate → iterate framework:
(1) Initialize: Create 𝑁 initial heuristics via the initial input prompt; (2) Generate: Until the
G-generation stopping criterion, we apply 5 prompt strategies to produce new candidates per
generation. Previous ideas are sampled probabilistically (sample number p=5 for E1/E2; p=1 for
M1–M3). Prompts combine previous ideas and code to produce varied outputs across conceptual and
implementation domains; (3) Evaluate: Evaluate on problem testcases; admit only feasible solutions
to the algorithm database; (4) Iterate: Sample the p candidates from the algorithm database to
form the next generation; repeat until completion, then output the best heuristics. We propose five
prompt strategies to improve the performance: (1) E1 (exploration): Generate heuristics maximally
different from the five samples to expand diversity; (2) E2 (exploration with synthesis): First
summarize common ideas across the five samples, then propose substantially different heuristics
to ensure effective innovation; (3) M1 (structural modification): Diagnose a single sample’s
shortcomings and revise both idea and code to improve performance; (4) M2 (parametric tuning):
Adjust parameters only, preserving the algorithmic structure; (5) M3 (simplification): Remove
redundant code components to improve efficiency.
   To control cost and ensure reproducibility, we adopt a fixed budget: 𝑁 = 10 initial heuristics
and 𝐺 = 20 generations. These hyperparameters are aligned with the prior work [31]. The only
difference is that here, to control the cost, we only use each prompt strategy once instead of 𝑁
times in [31]. In total, we generate 𝑁 + 𝐺 × 5 = 110 heuristics.
   We modify the population management strategy in the prior work [31]. Instead of using a fixed
size population, we decide to keep the heuristics if they have better regularity or displacement than
existing ones on any testcases.
   We add extra prompts before algorithm idea/code generation. These prompts make the LLM
output structured contents we need. Usually, the LLM follows the structures (function signature)
mentioned in the prompts. If the LLM contradicts the structure we need, we directly discard its
output and start next iteration. Since this rarely happens, this method does not hinder the process.

3.4   Template-Based Macro Matching
After generating regularity-aware contours, we create templates based on them. Here, a template
refers to a grid structure where each cell in the grid can accommodate a macro. Utilizing the template
naturally leads to regular macro legalization, and our objective is to minimize the displacement.
Matching is a common technique; we adopt a similar template-based approach as in [39]. Each
cluster is matched separately, and the influence between different clusters is not considered in this
step.

                                                  12
Contour-based Template Generation. The template grids are generated based on the bounding
box of the contour as follows:
  (1) Grid Cell Generation: We tile the bounding box of the contour with a uniform grid. Each
      grid cell has dimensions equal to the maximum macro width 𝑤 max and maximum macro
      height ℎ max within the cluster, plus half of the minimum channel spacing 𝑐 on each side, i.e.,
      cell size is (𝑤 max + 𝑐, ℎ max + 𝑐). This ensures that when macros are placed at grid positions,
      they maintain proper spacing.
  (2) Distance Calculation: For each grid cell center, we compute its signed Euclidean distance
      to the nearest point on the contour boundary (using shapely library). A negative distance
      indicates the cell center is inside the contour; a positive distance indicates it is outside.
  (3) Grid Selection: We rank all grid cells by their signed distance (from most negative to most
      positive) and select the top-𝑘 cells, where 𝑘 equals 𝑛, the number of macros in the cluster.
      This preferentially selects cells inside or near the contour boundary, allowing some flexibility
      to accommodate macros slightly outside the contour if needed.
  (4) Feasibility Filtering: We discard any grid position that would cause a macro to violate
      die-area boundaries or overlap fixed obstacles.
Note that 𝑘 and 𝑛 in the assignment problem formulation refer to the same quantity: the number of
macros in the cluster to be legalized.
Macro-to-Grid Assignment. We see legalizing macros to the template grids while minimizing the
displacement as an assignment problem on a bipartite graph, where nodes on one side represent all
macros in the cluster, and nodes on the other side represent available grid positions in the template.
For each macro-grid position pair, we define the edge weight as the Manhattan distance from the
macro’s initial position to the grid position. We formulate this as a linear assignment problem:
                                      ∑︁
                               min       𝑐𝑚,𝑔 · 𝑥𝑚,𝑔
                                      𝑚,𝑔
                                       𝑛
                                      ∑︁
                               s.t.         𝑥𝑖 𝑗 = 1,        ∀𝑖 ∈ {1, 2, . . . , 𝑛}
                                      𝑗=1                                                          (6)
                                       𝑛
                                      ∑︁
                                            𝑥𝑖 𝑗 = 1,        ∀𝑗 ∈ {1, 2, . . . , 𝑛}
                                      𝑖=1
                                      𝑥𝑖 𝑗 ∈ {0, 1}, ∀𝑖, 𝑗 ∈ {1, 2, . . . , 𝑛}
where 𝑐𝑚,𝑔 is the Manhattan distance from the macro’s 𝑚 initial position to the grid position 𝑔,
𝑥𝑚,𝑔 is the assignment variable. By solving this linear assignment problem, we obtain an optimal
macro-to-grid assignment that minimizes total displacement. We employ the Hungarian algorithm
to solve it.
   The whole flow for template-based macro matching is shown in Fig. 7. Consider the initial macro
placement solution generated by mixed-size placement. First, we use the LLM Agent-generated
contour algorithm to generate various contours. Subsequently, our designed template generation
algorithm produces a template grid based on these contours. Then, the linear assignment problem
is solved to assign macros to grids. Finally, multiple macro placement results are generated for
each cluster. Here, if only one solution is needed, we can choose the solution with the smallest
displacement or the one with the greatest regularity. In our experiments, we chose the solution
with the smallest displacement, since it is hard to characterize the trade-off between regularity and
displacement. However, the results generated by MacroAgent already improve the regularity of
the initial mixed-size placement a lot. Since LLM can efficiently find a lot of heuristics to fit the

                                                        13
real macro legalization testcases, we can obtain an exponential number of solutions for the overall
legalization through combination. In the experiment, by sorting the displacements of candidates
in each cluster, we quickly identified the global macro legalization candidates (after intra-cluster
legalization) with the top K smallest displacements. This multiple solution capability can
increase the robustness of legalization (find a legal macro legalization).

3.5    Inter-Cluster Refinement
Since each cluster is optimized independently by the LLM to maximize local regularity, the resulting
contours may overlap with neighboring clusters. The Inter-Cluster Refinement stage Equation (7) is
specifically designed to resolve these global conflicts while strictly preserving the internal relative
positions (regularity) achieved by the LLM in each cluster.
   Our approach adapts the traditional constraint graph formulation [7] to handle clusters with
irregular shapes.
                             min ∥𝒙 − 𝒙 ′ ∥ 1 + ∥𝒚 − 𝒚 ′ ∥ 1
                               s.t. 𝑥𝑖 + 𝑤𝑖 ≤ 𝑥 𝑗 ,              ∀𝑒𝑖 𝑗 ∈ 𝐺𝑥
                                    𝑦𝑖 + ℎ𝑖 ≤ 𝑦 𝑗 ,              ∀𝑒𝑖 𝑗 ∈ 𝐺 𝑦
                                    𝑊𝑙 ≤ 𝑥𝑖 ≤ 𝑊ℎ − 𝑤𝑖                                                   (7)
                                    𝐻𝑙 ≤ 𝑦𝑖 ≤ 𝐻ℎ − ℎ𝑖
                                    𝑥𝑎𝑘 − 𝑥𝑎𝑘 = 𝑥𝑎′ 𝑘 − 𝑥𝑎′ 𝑘 , ∀𝑎𝑘𝑖 , 𝑎𝑘𝑗 ∈ 𝐶 𝑘
                                       𝑖      𝑗       𝑖     𝑗

   As shown in Equation (7), we formulate a linear programming (LP) problem that minimizes the
total displacement ∥𝒙 − 𝒙 ′ ∥ 1 + ∥𝒚 − 𝒚 ′ ∥ 1 between the original positions (𝒙 ′, 𝒚 ′ ) and the legalized
positions (𝒙, 𝒚). The first and second constraints enforce non-overlapping conditions through
horizontal and vertical constraint graphs 𝐺𝑥 and 𝐺 𝑦 , while the third and fourth constraints ensure
that all macros remain within the placement boundaries (𝑊𝑙 for x coordinate of lower left point, 𝑊ℎ
for x coordinate of upper right point, 𝐻𝑙 for y coordinate of lower left point, 𝐻ℎ for y coordinate of
upper right point). The only difference with [7] is the last constraint 𝑥𝑎𝑘 − 𝑥𝑎𝑘 = 𝑥𝑎′ 𝑘 − 𝑥𝑎′ 𝑘 preserves
                                                                               𝑖   𝑗    𝑖      𝑗
the relative positioning of macros within the same cluster 𝐶 𝑘 , thus maintaining the regularity.
  For scenarios where the linear programming approach fails to solve (due to extra constraints),
we employ DREAMPlace’s default heuristic algorithms [17] as a fallback mechanism. Although this
approach may compromise the achieved regularity, it provides an efficient solution for resolving
overlaps in practice.

4     IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
The macro legalization algorithm was implemented in Python. This was due to LLMs’ generally
better performance with interpreted languages like Python.
  We leverage cursor, Cua [40] and pyautogui for constructing the Agent workflow. Cursor is a
general AI agent editor, and Cua and pyautogui are used to simulate the mouse and keyboard to
control the cursor editor to automate the flow. We use Cua and pyautogui to program the fixed flow.
We install the sequential thinking, memory, and context7 mcp in the cursor, endowing
the agent with capabilities of thinking, searching and memory. After seeding the template prompt,
the agent runs fully automatically: Cursor orchestrates file edits and execution; Cua and pyautogui
drive the UI; failure handling (signature mismatch, runtime error, invalid shape) is automated via
the corresponding validators. No human edits are applied to candidate code during the search.
  We prioritized models that reliably follow structured code-generation instructions and produce
long, compositional functions with few syntax errors—key requirements for agentic code generation

                                                      14
(see Section 2.1). In our budgeted setting, Claude 4.0 Sonnet (Thinking, Max) best satisfied these
criteria. We also spot-checked Gemini 2.5 Pro and GPT 5 and observed comparable adherence to the
prompt scaffolding; a smaller 30-40B-class model struggled with syntax/structure. A formal cross-
model benchmark is valuable but outside our scope; we therefore document the budgeted agent
setting. The macro legalization source code is publicly available at https://github.com/gilgamsh/
MacroAgent; the LLM prompts and agent scripts will be released in the same repository upon
acceptance to facilitate reproduction and cross-model comparisons.

5     EXPERIMENT
5.1    Experiment Setup

Baseline Selection. DREAMPlace default macro legalization [17] served as the primary baseline
method, utilizing heuristic algorithms and constraint graph techniques for macro legalization.
Additionally, the sequence pair method presented in [7] is also included; it uses the sequence pair
method and simulated annealing to enhance the robustness of macro legalization. Neither of these
baseline algorithms explicitly incorporates macro regularity and typically relies on only one or two
heuristics.
   We distinguish the scope of macro legalization from macro placement. While most prior macro
placement works focus on optimizing rough locations that allow minor overlaps [3–9], and rely on
a macro legalizer to resolve overlaps, MacroAgent operates as a downstream refinement framework
designed to resolve overlaps and improve regularity of existing placements. Therefore, compar-
ing MacroAgent directly with mixed-size global placement-based macro placement tools (which
generate the inputs for our system) is methodologically inconsistent. Our work is orthogonal to
prior macro placement works and can be integrated with them. Instead, we anchor all methods
to the same mixed-size global placement prototype to isolate legalization effects. We validate its
performance against state-of-the-art legalization and refinement algorithms (e.g., DREAMPlace’s
legalization module and sequence pair method in [7]), ensuring a fair comparison within the same
physical design stage. We also compare with the macro legalization capability of Cadence Innovus,
a leading industrial physical design tool.
Experiment flow. The experiment workflow starts mixed-size placement using DREAMPlace
4.1 [7]. Subsequently, the macro legalization is applied. Next, we utilize DREAMPlace 4.1 [7] to
implement standard cell placement and legalization. Finally, we operate the HeLEM-GR [41] for
global routing and evaluate the performance of the resulting layout. We refer to this as the academic
flow. We additionally evaluate under an industrial flow, where standard cell placement and routing
are performed entirely within Cadence Innovus (detailed in Section 5.5).
   The experiment was configured on a Linux machine running CentOS 7, equipped with an
Intel Xeon Platinum 8358 CPU @ 2.60GHz, 1TB of RAM, and an NVIDIA A800-SXM4-80GB GPU
(CUDA 12.1). The software environment includes GCC 9.5.0 and Python 3.9.18. The proposed
macro legalization algorithm exclusively utilizes CPU resources, while GPU resources are leveraged
by DREAMPlace and HeLEM-GR. Cadence Innovus v22.10 is used for the industrial baseline
comparison and PPA evaluations. Due to the inherent randomness in sequence pair legalization,
we execute the legalization algorithm 20 times with different random seeds. To ensure fairness,
MacroAgent generates at most 20 legalization candidate results that minimize displacements. (note
that MacroAgent can generate diverse legalization results as needed, multiple solution capability)
For each result, we perform standard cell placement and global routing. Finally, the result table lists
the best wirelength-based outcomes, along with their corresponding legalization runtime, total
runtime, and other relevant metrics (total 20 times runtime for sequence pair and MacroAgent).

                                                  15
                                                                     TILOS                                                                  Chipyard
                                        CV=1.52%      CV=0.48%       CV=1.23%   CV=0.49%    CV=1.03%                CV=0.46%     CV=0.12%   CV=0.06%    CV=0.34%   CV=0.19%

                                                                                                            100.6
                               102
                                                                                                            100.4

                                                                                                            100.2
                               101
              WL (% of Mean)




                                                                                                            100.0

                               100
                                                                                                             99.8

                                                                                                             99.6
                                99

                                                                                                             99.4

                                98                                                                           99.2

                                          n=8              n=8        n=20       n=20         n=8                    n=20          n=20         n=20     n=20       n=20
                                         33                36       ool      arro
                                                                                  t           LA                     fft           ket          ka      min
                                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                                                   oom
                                     ne1             ne1        Me
                                                                  mP      ckP           NVD                                    roc        hwa        gem        dsb
                                 Aria         Aria                    Bla


      Fig. 8. Normalized wirelength distribution of MacroAgent across all candidate results per testcase.

                                                 Table 1. Benchmark statistics of TILOS testcases (easy).
                                                                 Testcase                  #macro       #types         #inst                #net
                                                        Ariane133                           133               1       98250                101335
                                                        Ariane136                           136               1       142840               144683
                                                         MemPool                            20                2      131732               135299
                                                       BlackParrot                          220               6      1277012              1510338
                                                          NVDLA                             128               1       153561               208063



To demonstrate the stability of MacroAgent, Fig. 8 shows the distribution of routed wirelength
across all candidate results for each testcase, normalized by the per-testcase mean. MacroAgent
enumerates candidate solutions in order of increasing displacement, so the resulting variations
primarily stem from permutations within small macro clusters, while the placement of large clusters
remains stable. Consequently, testcases with diverse macro types (e.g., Chipyard, 7–12 types) exhibit
particularly tight distributions (CV < 0.5%), as the dominant clusters are effectively fixed and only
minor clusters are permuted. TILOS testcases with a single macro type show slightly higher yet
still modest variation (CV ≈ 1%–1.5%), because the single-cluster structure exposes more of the
layout to reordering. Overall, the best-of-𝑁 selection introduces negligible cherry-picking bias.
Benchmark. For benchmarking, the TILOS [42] benchmark was chosen, following the same testcase
configuration as [7]: Ariane133, Ariane136, and MemPool use the ASAP7 PDK, while BlackParrot
and NVDLA use the NanGate45 PDK. Furthermore, we found that TILOS is an easy benchmark
for macro legalization and that all baseline methods can legalize all testcases. To model more
challenging macro legalization scenarios, several macro circuit designs generated via Chipyard [43]
(v1.9.1) with the ASAP7 PDK were also incorporated into the benchmarks. The statistics of the
TILOS and Chipyard testcases are shown in Table 1 and Table 2. #macro is the number of macros,
#types, #inst, and #net denote the number of macro types, the number of instances, and the number
of nets. We can see that the Chipyard testcases are more challenging, having more macros
and a wider range of macro types.

5.2    Prompt Design
To enhance reproducibility, Fig. 9 presents a complete E2 (exploration with synthesis) prompt
example used in the contour algorithm discovery. The prompt is organized into the six sections
described in Section 3: task description, context with previous results, evolution directive, usage

                                                                                                       16
                         Table 2. Benchmark statistics of Chipyard testcases (hard).
                                 Testcase     #macro      #types       #inst        #net
                                  fft             121        7       211905        216507
                                 hwaka            292        9       680029        687204
                                gemmini           737        9      1176503       1189717
                                dsboom            556        12      643392        659154
                                rocket            121        7       203995        208595


Table 3. Results on TILOS (academic flow: DREAMPlace + HeLEM-GR): regularity, routed wirelength, con-
gestion (%) and runtime (s, sum of 20 runs). S (Status) shows if failed to legalize.

                       DREAMPlace [17]                    Sequence Pair [7]                             MacroAgent
    Testcase
                 S Reg LT      WL     Con TT S Reg           LT     WL         Con TT       S Reg LT        WL     Con TT
  Ariane133 ✓ 0.13 0.004 8.69E08 0.03 59.2 ✓ 0.16 38.625 8.51E08 0.23 376.7 ✓ 0.67 1.570 7.62E08 0.07 130.9
  Ariane136 ✓ 0.13 0.005 8.37E08 0.02 90.1 ✓ 0.18 93.652 8.44E08 0.00 576.9 ✓ 0.59 1.560 8.35E08 0.00 188.4
   MemPool       ✓ 0.13 0.001 7.46E08 0.77 85.0 ✓ 0.13 1.077       7.44E08 0.48 557.4 ✓ 0.35 1.050 6.80E08 0.39 501.6
BlackParrot ✓ 0.06 0.008 9.10E10 3.90 503.7 ✓ 0.06 254.212 9.05E10 3.41 3930.7 ✓ 0.13 5.550 9.19E10 4.28 3850.2
    NVDLA        ✓ 0.08 0.004 2.46E10 4.58 105.5 ✓ 0.08 87.272 2.42E10 4.12 791.2 ✓ 0.64 3.470 2.36E10 4.23 329.2
     Ratio         1.00 1.00   1.00   1.00 1.00    1.12 16611.63    0.99       2.01 6.93      4.51 663.15   0.95   0.97 4.19


Table 4. Results on Chipyard (academic flow: DREAMPlace + HeLEM-GR): regularity, routed wirelength,
congestion (%) and runtime (s, sum of 20 runs). S (Status) shows if failed to legalize.

                  DREAMPlace [17]                       Sequence Pair [7]                            MacroAgent
 Testcase
             S Reg LT     WL     Con TT S Reg           LT        WL       Con TT          S Reg   LT       WL     Con TT

   fft       × 0.09 0.004 3.16E10 0.33 111.3 × 0.09 2.576 3.16E10 0.34 623.7 ✓ 0.34 2.740 3.50E10 0.56 656.7
  hwaka × 0.06 0.015 8.40E10 0.29 357.5 ✓ 0.06 535.677 8.38E10 0.32 2442.0 ✓ 0.14 6.440 8.50E10 0.29 2199.8
gemmini ✓ 0.05 0.029 1.10E11 0.14 354.5 ✓ 0.05 413.445 1.10E11 0.14 2202.9 ✓ 0.20 14.630 1.07E11 0.13 2236.5
 dsboom ✓ 0.05 0.019 7.89E10 0.11 533.8 ✓ 0.05 409.577 7.89E10 0.12 2404.7 ✓ 0.15 9.110 7.62E10 0.18 2472.8
 rocket × 0.10 0.006 3.07E10 0.16 862.1 ✓ 0.10 1.922 3.36E10 0.16 862.1 ✓ 0.26 2.820 2.87E10 0.11 928.3


scenario, quality metrics, and input references. Slot variables (shown in braces) are automatically
populated from the algorithm database at each generation. We choose E2 as the representative
example because it is the most comprehensive strategy, requiring the LLM to first summarize
common ideas across five parent algorithms and then synthesize a substantially different new
heuristic. The highlighted evolution directive is the only section that differs across the five
strategies (E1/E2/M1–M3); all other sections remain identical across strategies.

  E2 Prompt Example for Contour Algorithm Generation
  ## Task
  Design and implement a contour generation algorithm that, given a cluster of macros, produces a closed
  polygon enclosing them. The algorithm must be implemented as a Python function with the following
  signature:
  def generate_contour(corners: list[tuple], centers: list[tuple],
  polygons: List[Polygon]) -> Polygon


                                                             17
  where corners is a list of (x,y) coordinates of all macro corners in the cluster, centers is a list of
  (x,y) coordinates of macro centers, polygons is a list of Shapely Polygon objects representing each
  macro’s bounding box, and the return value is a Shapely Polygon.

 ## Context
 Previous method ideas: {ideas}
 Previous results: {displacement},                   {regularity_index},             {solutions}          and
 {visualization}

    Evolution Directive [E2]:
  I have 5 existing contour generation algorithms with their ideas and codes as follows:
  No.1 Idea: Compute alpha shape using Delaunay triangulation with adaptive circumradius filtering...
  Code: def generate_contour(corners, centers, ...): ...
  ...
  No.5 Idea: Grid-based rectilinear boundary tracing with density-aware cell merging...
  Code: def generate_contour(corners, centers, ...): ...
  Please help me create a new contour algorithm that is different from the given ones but can be motivated
  by them.
  Firstly, identify the common idea in the provided algorithms.
  Secondly, based on the backbone idea, describe your new algorithm in one sentence.
  Thirdly, implement it as a Python function named generate_contour following the signature
  defined above.

  ## Usage Scenario
  In the MacroAgent framework, the generated contour serves as the boundary for template generation: the
  contour polygon is converted into a rectilinear template that defines legal macro slots, and the Hungarian
  algorithm then assigns macros to these slots to minimize displacement. A contour that closely follows
  the original macro arrangement preserves macro positions and reduces displacement, while a contour
  with fewer concavities produces a more regular template with fewer channels. These two objectives
  often conflict, and the contour algorithm must balance them. The contour algorithm is therefore the key
  heuristic component whose quality directly determines the downstream legalization result.

  ## Quality Metrics
  Regularity: measured by the channel count ratio 𝑅 = 𝐶 min /𝐶 actual , where 𝐶 min is the theoretical minimum
  number of channels for a perfect grid arrangement and 𝐶 actual is the actual channel count computed from
  the Hanan grid. 𝑅 ∈ (0, 1]; higher is better (𝑅 = 1 means a perfect regular array).
  Displacement: total Manhattan distance 𝑖 (|𝑥𝑖 − 𝑥𝑖′ | + |𝑦𝑖 − 𝑦𝑖′ |) between each macro’s legalized position
                                              Í
  (𝑥𝑖 , 𝑦𝑖 ) and its original placement position (𝑥𝑖′, 𝑦𝑖′ ); lower is better.

 ## Input and Reference
 {test case files and reference legalization visualizations}




Fig. 9. Complete E2 (exploration with synthesis) prompt example for contour algorithm generation. The
 highlighted evolution directive section is the only part that differs across the five strategies (E1/E2/M1–M3);
all other sections remain identical. Slot variables (in braces) are populated from the algorithm database at
each generation.



                                                       18
5.3   Agent Discovered Contour Algorithms
We use the easy TILOS testcases to generate the contour algorithms, and the hard Chipyard testcases
to test the generalization ability of the contour algorithm we discovered. Meanwhile, we extract
the single-cluster testcases decomposed from TILOS testcases to simplify the problem instance
input to the LLM. The LLM-driven algorithm optimization finishes in one day, showing significant
efficiency gains versus researchers’ development time. The discovery run is an offline, one-time
search. Among the 110 generated candidates, only 8 algorithms remain in the final database because
they improve either displacement or regularity on at least one testcase; the rest are discarded during
screening. Notably, nearly all candidates are executable and produce valid results. This confirms
that our domain-agnostic abstraction effectively reduces the problem to pure geometry reasoning,
which is well within the LLM’s capability.
In the initialization stage, the LLM generates 𝑁 = 10 diverse contour heuristics from scratch based
solely on the input prompt, without any hand-crafted algorithm design. These heuristics span four
broad geometric strategy families: triangulation-based (Items 1, 2, 5), graph-based (Items 4, 10),
density/field-based (Items 6, 7, 8), and grid/scanline-based (Items 3, 9):
   (1) Alpha Shape — adaptive Delaunay triangulation with circumradius filtering.
   (2) kNN Concave Hull — locally adaptive concave boundary via kNN density estimation.
   (3) Grid-Based — occupancy grid dilation with convex hull extraction.
   (4) MST — buffered minimum spanning tree of macro centers.
   (5) Corner-Preserving Alpha — alpha shape augmented with macro corner points.
   (6) KDE Contour — Gaussian kernel density iso-contour extraction.
   (7) Voronoi Clip — Voronoi cells clipped by local neighborhood radius.
   (8) Relative Position — kNN-biased alpha shape preserving local structure.
   (9) Rectilinear Boundary Tracing — scanline-based orthogonal interval merging.
 (10) Manhattan Distance Hull — 𝐿1 -weighted MST with axis-aligned buffering.
Detailed implementation is available at https://github.com/gilgamsh/MacroAgent. This diversity
of geometric primitives ensures that the initial population covers a wide region of the algorithm
design space, providing a broad foundation for the subsequent evolutionary search.
At test time, each cluster generates 8 candidate legalization results; we can directly find the potential
minimum displacement legalization result by combining all clusters’ minimum displacement results.
By exploiting the multiple-solution capability, we can find the global macro legalization candidates
with the top K smallest displacements. Note that here the displacement is just an estimation, and
we still need to perform inter-cluster refinement to get the final legalization result.
As shown in Table 3 and Table 4, MacroAgent outperforms the baselines on both benchmarks (es-
pecially on test benchmark Chipyard), showing the generalization ability of the contour algorithms
we discovered. Here, we analyze some of the contour algorithms LLM discovered as shown
in Fig. 10.
Alpha Shape generates the contour as follows: (1) collect corner and center points of all macros;
       (2) perform Delaunay triangulation on these points; (3) for each triangle, compute its cir-
       cumradius; (4) discard triangles whose circumradius exceeds an adaptive threshold—a large
       circumradius indicates an elongated, non-compact triangle that likely spans empty space
       between macros; (5) merge the remaining compact triangles to form the contour. This yields
       a tighter, concave boundary as shown in the third figure in Fig. 4.
Grid Based generates the contour as follows: (1) compute the bounding box of all macros and
       partition it into an 𝑁 × 𝑁 uniform grid; (2) for each grid cell, test whether its center point
       lies inside any macro polygon and mark it as occupied if so; (3) dilate the occupied cells by
       marking the eight immediate neighbors of every occupied cell; (4) extract the four corner

                                                   19
 def create_contour:         def create_contour:           def create_contour:
     """Alpha Shape"""           """Grid Based"""              """MST Concave"""
     p = centers+corners         grid = create_grid(bound)     p = centers
     tri = Delaunay(p)                                         G = complete_graph(p)
     alpha = median(dist(p))     for rect in rects:            for i, j in G.edges():
                                   mark_grid(grid, rect)         d = dist(i,j)
     for s in tri.simplices                                      G[i][j] = d
       r = cirradius(p[s])       grid = dilate(grid)
       if r < alpha              points = corners(grid)        mst = mst(G)
         [loop body]             h = ConvexHull(points)        lines = []
                                 ret = h.intersect(rects)      for u, v in mst.edges():
     return union(tri)                                           lines.append(u,v)
                                 return ret
                                                               return union(lines)

Fig. 10. Selected LLM-designed Contour Algorithms (simplified). Simplified pseudocode of three represen-
tative contour generation algorithms discovered by the LLM agent: Alpha Shape (concave boundary via
Delaunay triangulation), Grid-Based (occupancy grid with dilation and convex hull), and MST-Based (mini-
mum spanning tree with buffer expansion).


      vertices of every marked cell and compute the convex hull; (5) apply light post-processing
      to obtain the final contour. Since it is based on a grid structure, it produces more regular
      contours than the other algorithms, as shown in the second figure in Fig. 4.
MST (minimum-spanning tree) generates the contour as follows: (1) construct a complete graph
      on macro centers with Euclidean edge weights; (2) compute the minimum spanning tree
      (MST); (3) convert MST edges into line segments and apply a buffer to the segment set; (4)
      union the buffered region with all macro polygons to obtain the final contour. This method
      naturally fits the outline of the original macros, with only a simple effect of smoothing the
      boundaries, as shown in the last figure in Fig. 4.
From the above analysis, we can see that the LLM designed contour algorithms can achieve different
trade-offs between regularity and displacement in algorithm level, not only in parameter level.
These algorithms are meaningful and readable. We also find that with the help of reference
manual legalization solutions, LLMs can generate more focused thoughts and modifications.
Quantitative Diversity Analysis. To quantitatively evaluate the diversity of the eight LLM-
discovered contour algorithms, we compute the pairwise Intersection-over-Union (IoU) of the
contour polygons generated by each algorithm on a representative testcase (Ariane133). A lower
IoU between two algorithms indicates that they produce geometrically distinct contours, confirming
genuine algorithmic diversity rather than minor parametric variations. Fig. 11 reports the full 8 × 8
pairwise IoU matrix. The average off-diagonal IoU is 0.71. Because all contours enclose the same
set of macros, a baseline overlap is inherent; the meaningful variation lies in boundary strategies,
where the algorithms differ significantly. Notably, kde exhibits the lowest average pairwise IoU
with all other methods (0.48–0.77), confirming that it explores a fundamentally different geometric
strategy. While some method pairs share higher similarity (e.g., mst and density_weighted at
0.94; alpha_shape and mst at 0.89), the eight algorithms span a wide range of contour shapes,
which directly enables the multiple-solution capability described above.

5.4   Overall Comparisons
Regularity reduces channel count and deadspace, which in turn reduces detours and router effort. We
therefore report routed wirelength and congestion as PPA-relevant surrogates in our legalization
only study. We list the results of the TILOS and Chipyard testcases in Table 3 and Table 4. 𝑆
shows whether the macro legalization is successful. Reg shows the regularity score of the macro

                                                  20
                                                                                            oi
                                                                        ity




                                                                                          n
                                        a




                                                                    ns




                                                                                       ro
                                   ph




                                                     id



                                                            st
                                              n




                                                                                                  e
                                                                                x
                                                                  de
                                             kn




                                                                                                 kd
                                                                                      vo
                                                                               cv
                                                    gr



                                                           m
                                  al
                                                                                                      1.0
                        alpha    1.00       0.83   0.70   0.89   0.88         0.60   0.73     0.48


                                                                                                      0.9
                          knn    0.83       1.00   0.80   0.81   0.84         0.67   0.74     0.53



                          grid   0.70       0.80   1.00   0.71   0.73         0.79   0.72     0.65
                                                                                                      0.8


                          mst    0.89       0.81   0.71   1.00   0.94         0.60   0.81     0.48




                                                                                                            IoU
                                                                                                      0.7
                       density   0.88       0.84   0.73   0.94   1.00         0.61   0.81     0.69


                                                                                                      0.6
                          cvx    0.60       0.67   0.79   0.60   0.61         1.00   0.58     0.77



                      voronoi    0.73       0.74   0.72   0.81   0.81         0.58   1.00     0.49
                                                                                                      0.5


                          kde    0.48       0.53   0.65   0.48   0.69         0.77   0.49     1.00

                                                                                                      0.4

Fig. 11. Pairwise IoU matrix of eight contour algorithms on Ariane133. Lower off-diagonal values indicate
higher geometric diversity.


legalization. LT shows the time of macro legalization. WL shows the routed wirelength reported by
HeLEM-GR [41] in DREAMPlace internal units. Con shows the congestion(%). Regularity (Reg) is
calculated using the channel-based metric defined in Equation (2), where a score of 1.0 represents a
theoretically perfect square array. TT shows the total workflow time(s) (sum of 20 runs), including
mixed-size placement, macro legalization, standard cell placement and legalization, and global
routing.
For the TILOS benchmark, MacroAgent achieves an average 4% improvement in wirelength and
reduces congestion in some testcases compared with sequence pair. Compared with DREAMPlace
default macro legalization, MacroAgent delivers a 5% improvement in wirelength and similar
congestion. Beyond standard metrics, the robustness of MacroAgent significantly surpasses other
methods, particularly in complex design scenarios. As evidenced in Table 4, the DREAMPlace
baseline fails to legalize three out of five Chipyard testcases (‘fft’, ‘hwaka’, ‘rocket’), and the Sequence
Pair method fails on ‘fft’ despite 20 restart attempts. These failures typically stem from the limitation
of utilizing a single heuristic, which often leads to getting trapped in local optima or failing to
resolve dense overlaps in highly constrained regions. In contrast, MacroAgent leverages a portfolio
of diverse LLM-designed heuristics. By generating multiple candidate contours and templates for
each cluster, our framework effectively avoids the rigidity of single-algorithm approaches. This
capability ensures design closure even in high-density cases.
Furthermore, as shown in Table 5, MacroAgent achieves a wirelength improvement of 3% to 5%
with similar congestion compared to both DREAMPlace and sequence pair on the common success
testcases. Note that for failed cases (marked with × in Table 4), the reported wirelength and
congestion values are obtained by proceeding with the downstream flow despite remaining macro
overlaps; these results are not physically valid and are included only for reference—they should
not be used for quantitative comparison.
The legalization efficiency of MacroAgent is higher than sequence pair (since sequence pair use
simulated annealing), with a runtime on the order of seconds and its time consumption in the full
workflow being negligible. Overall our MacroAgent framework is more robust, effective
with better solution quality.

                                                                 21
               Table 5. Metric ratio comparison of MacroAgent and baselines on Chipyard.
                                  Comparison                  Reg           LT       WL         Con       TT
                       MacroAgent / DREAMPlace                3.50      491.98       0.97       1.28     5.47
                       MacroAgent / Sequence Pair             2.98       0.38        0.95       1.01     1.01


Table 6. Comparison of post-route PPA results on TILOS benchmark (industrial flow: Innovus place-and-
route): frequency (MHz), routed wirelength (µm), WNS (ns), TNS (ns), and power (mW).
                               DREAMPlace [17]                     Sequence Pair [7]                            MacroAgent
   Testcase   Freq     WL       WNS     TNS      Power     WL       WNS      TNS       Power           WL       WNS     TNS      Power
              (MHz)    (µm)      (ns)   (ns)     (mW)     (µm)      (ns)     (ns)       (mW)           (µm)     (ns)    (ns)     (mW)
 Ariane133     500    910082 -0.128 -2.876       235.638 907235 -0.115 -2.533          235.551     883726 -0.066 -0.882         234.954
 Ariane136     769    906339 -0.021 -1.554       367.128 910466 -0.028 -1.822          367.467     857138 -0.007 -0.060         366.547
  MemPool      333    778501 -0.396 -1207.310 55.674     775212 -0.395 -1237.757 55.599            752503 -0.369 -1048.01 55.613
BlackParrot 667 30538061 0.144           0      2072.170 30395222 0.150          0   2071.562 29831309 0.146             0      2071.842
      NVDLA    500    8850019 -0.208 -2.355 1093.415 8852443 -0.222 -3.275             1093.389 8806758 -0.021 -0.129 1092.430
      Ratio     -      1.000    1.000   1.000    1.000    0.998     1.050    1.117      0.999      0.971        0.574   0.317    0.998




5.5    PPA Evaluation
To validate the downstream impact of macro legalization on physical design quality, we perform
complete place-and-route using Cadence Innovus on the TILOS benchmark, where all baseline
methods successfully legalize every testcase, enabling a fair PPA comparison. On Chipyard, baseline
failures preclude meaningful PPA comparison.
Experiment Flow. After macro legalization, we import the post-legalization DEF and LEF files into
Innovus and run place_opt_design for standard cell placement and optimization, followed by
routing. We report routed wirelength, WNS (worst negative slack), TNS (total negative slack), and
total power. For each testcase, we set a target frequency (i.e., the reciprocal of the clock period) so
that WNS falls within 10–20% of the clock period. A negative WNS means the critical path violates
the timing constraint; a more negative value indicates a more severe violation. A positive WNS
indicates that all paths meet timing, with a larger value reflecting more slack margin. In both cases,
a higher WNS is preferable. TNS aggregates all negative slacks across timing endpoints (0 if no
negative slack), reflecting the overall timing condition of the design.
Results Analysis. As shown in Table 6, MacroAgent provides the strongest overall PPA trade-off
among the three methods. Compared with DREAMPlace, MacroAgent reduces routed wirelength
by 2.9% on average, with the largest improvement on Ariane136 (−5.4%). The improved regular-
ity reduces deadspace between macros, which shortens routing detours and lowers wirelength;
the wirelength reduction in turn improves downstream PPA. This wirelength reduction directly
translates into timing improvements: MacroAgent achieves 42.6% WNS improvement and 68.3%
TNS improvement on average compared with DREAMPlace. The gains are particularly notable
on Ariane136 and NVDLA, where TNS is reduced by over 90%. Power consumption remains
comparable across all methods, as macro legalization primarily affects interconnect topology rather
than cell-level switching activity. MacroAgent achieves lower routed wirelength on all five testcases
and better overall timing than Sequence Pair (best WNS on four of five testcases and equal-best
TNS on all five), with comparable power.

                                                              22
Table 7. Comparison with Innovus macro placement on TILOS (industrial flow: Innovus place-and-route):
routed wirelength (µm), congestion (%), and runtime (s).
                                          Innovus              MacroAgent
                       Testcase
                                   WL (µm) Con (%) RT (s) WL (µm) Con (%) RT (s)
                     Ariane133   727027       0.02         408  701629    0.01    379
                     Ariane136   893684       0.01         491  892388    0.01    437
                      MemPool    821082       0.01         432  810131    0.01    417
                    BlackParrot 28421983      0.16        2938 28341650   0.29   2635
                       NVDLA    8325486       0.63        551 8033640     0.61   512
                         Ratio       1.000    1.00        1.00   0.982    1.06   0.92


Comparison with Innovus Macro Placement.                       To further evaluate MacroAgent
against industrial tools, we construct two controlled flows on the five TILOS testcases.
Flow A (Innovus baseline): DREAMPlace initial placement → Innovus macro refine-
ment via place_design -concurrent_macros -incremental followed by
refine_macro_place (which includes flip optimization) → place_design for stan-
dard cell placement → routing. Flow B (MacroAgent + Innovus): DREAMPlace initial placement
→ MacroAgent macro legalization → the same refine_macro_place and downstream stages
as Flow A. Both flows share identical Innovus settings and the same downstream pipeline after
macro refinement. Because flip optimization cannot be disabled in refine_macro_place and
significantly affects wirelength, both flows include it. Therefore, the only controlled variable is the
legalized macro placement entering the shared Innovus pipeline, isolating the impact of macro
legalization quality on final PPA.
As shown in Table 7, MacroAgent achieves lower routed wirelength than Innovus on all five testcases,
with an average improvement of 1.8%. The improvement is most pronounced on Ariane133
and NVDLA (both −3.5%). Since Innovus’s macro placement refinement includes flip optimization,
it may further adjust macro positions based on orientation changes—an optimization that can
benefit certain testcases. This explains the congestion advantage of Innovus on BlackParrot
(0.16% vs. 0.29%): Innovus’s integrated orientation-flip refinement effectively reduces routing
hotspots. However, flip optimization does not always help: compared to the results without Innovus
refinement in Table 6, the wirelength of Ariane136 and MemPool increases in both flows,
suggesting that the orientation changes can degrade placement quality on certain designs. Despite
this, MacroAgent still achieves consistently lower wirelength across all testcases, indicating that its
legalization provides a superior starting point that Innovus’s downstream optimization preserves
and benefits from.

5.6   Analysis and Visualization
To intuitively understand the impact of our MacroAgent legalization, we choose rocket to
visualize the results of each legalization method. The visualization results of rocket are shown in
Fig. 12. Initial shows the layout after mixed-size placement, which is the input of macro legalization.
We can see that the layout after DREAMPlace macro legalization still has overlaps, which shows that
one or two heuristics cannot cover all testcases. Although sequence pair can resolve the overlaps,
the regularity is not satisfactory, resulting in irregular channels, which is harmful to wirelength.
On the last figure, MacroAgent shows that the layout resolves the overlaps, and the regularity is
significantly improved.
To further demonstrate the effectiveness of LLM-generated multiple contour algorithms, we present
the wirelength ratio (same configuration with the main experiment) on the TILOS Benchmark

                                                     23
         (a) Initial             (b) DREAMPlace              (c) Sequence Pair          (d) MacroAgent
Fig. 12. Comparison of different macro legalization methods on rocket: (a) initial global placement, (b)
DREAMPlace legalization with remaining overlaps, (c) Sequence Pair legalization with irregular channels,
and (d) MacroAgent legalization with overlap-free and regular layout.

                              1
  Wirelength Ratio




                       1
                     0.99
                     0.98          0.974
                                                        0.97             0.967
                     0.97                                                                   0.962
                     0.96

                              1     3                    5                7                   9
                                               Number of Templates
Fig. 13. The impact of the used contour algorithm number on the average routed wirelength ratio in the
TILOS benchmark (starts with only a rectangle contour).


under two scenarios: simply using the rectangle contour algorithm and continuously adding LLM-
generated algorithms. The x-axis counts the number of distinct LLM-designed contour algorithms
included in the candidate set (starting from the rectangle baseline = 1). Each contour induces one
template; we then pick the best legalization per cluster via assignment. We can see that wirelength
is improved when multiple LLM-generated algorithms are used, as shown in Fig. 13, which shows
that LLM-generated algorithms are better and multiple heuristics can help improve the overall
performance.

5.7                  Discussions
Previous work [32] indicate that LLMs exhibit limitations in both domain-specific EDA knowl-
edge and large-scale project handling capabilities, resulting in suboptimal direct code generation.
To address these challenges, we developed a framework that abstracts macro legalization into
a geometric problem. Notably, when generating algorithms for this abstracted problem, LLMs
successfully leveraged universal geometric concepts such as alpha shapes, k-nearest neighbors, and
minimum spanning trees, rather than relying on EDA-specific domain knowledge. Importantly, our
framework employs a general-purpose, off-the-shelf LLM without any domain-specific fine-tuning.
Domain-specific decisions—such as the clustering strategy and the choice of optimization objectives
(regularity and displacement minimization)—are encoded by human engineers in the framework
design, while the LLM operates solely on the abstracted geometric subproblem using its pretrained
reasoning capabilities. This domain-agnostic approach yielded promising results.
A traditional automation loop optimizes parameters within a fixed algorithm. In contrast, the
LLM Agent demonstrated the ability to traverse the algorithmic search space, proposing distinct
geometric heuristics (e.g., switching from convex hulls to MST-based contours) that a parameter-
sweep baseline could not discover.

                                                   24
Our algorithm enforces regularity solely within intra-cluster legalization, while the fallback heuristic
algorithms for inter-cluster legalization compromise layout regularity. Meanwhile, the current LLM
Agent-based algorithm design approach remains limited to generating contour algorithms. Future
research should prioritize advanced regularity-aware heuristic methodologies for clustering and
inter-cluster optimization.

6   CONCLUSION
We introduce MacroAgent, a robust regularity-aware macro legalization framework utilizing LLM-
agent-designed contour algorithms. The framework proceeds through four stages: clustering,
regularity-aware contour generation, template-based matching, and inter-cluster refinement. We
abstract the EDA problem of macro legalization into a domain-agnostic geometric problem, enabling
LLMs to design diverse efficient heuristic contour algorithms for macro legalization. On TILOS
benchmarks, MacroAgent reduces wirelength by 5% compared to DREAMPlace 2.0 [17] and 4%
compared to the sequence pair [7], while matching their congestion qualities. On Chipyard designs,
it successfully legalizes every case and achieves wirelength improvements of 3% to 5%. End-to-end
evaluation through Cadence Innovus further confirms that the regularity improvements yield
tangible PPA gains, including 2.9% lower routed wirelength and 68.3% TNS improvement over the
DREAMPlace macro legalization baseline, and 1.8% lower routed wirelength when integrated into
the Innovus macro placement flow. Our approach shortens development cycles and highlights the
potential of LLMs to assist in designing EDA algorithms. We believe this paradigm can be extended
to other NP-hard EDA algorithm design problems, bringing new vitality to the community.

REFERENCES
 [1] P. McLellan, “Innovus mixed placer,” https://community.cadence.com/cadence_blogs_8/b/breakfast-bytes/posts/
     innovus-mixed-placer, October 6 2020, cadence Blogs - Breakfast Bytes, accessed 14 September 2025.
 [2] X. Gao, Y.-M. Jiang, L. Shao, P. Raspopovic, M. E. Verbeek, M. Sharma, V. Rashingkar, and A. Jalota, “Congestion and
     timing aware macro placement using machine learning predictions from different data sources: Cross-design model
     applicability and the discerning ensemble,” in Proceedings of the 2022 International Symposium on Physical Design, 2022,
     pp. 195–202.
 [3] Y. Pu, T. Chen, Z. He, C. Bai, H. Zheng, Y. Lin, and B. Yu, “Incremacro: Incremental macro placement refinement,” in
     Proceedings of the 2024 International Symposium on Physical Design, 2024, pp. 169–176.
 [4] J.-M. Lin, Y.-L. Deng, S.-T. Li, B.-H. Yu, L.-Y. Chang, and T.-W. Peng, “Regularity-aware routability-driven macro
     placement methodology for mixed-size circuits with obstacles,” IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI)
     Systems, vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 57–68, 2018.
 [5] A. Agnesina, P. Rajvanshi, T. Yang, G. Pradipta, A. Jiao, B. Keller, B. Khailany, and H. Ren, “Autodmp: Automated
     dreamplace-based macro placement,” in Proceedings of the 2023 International Symposium on Physical Design, 2023, pp.
     149–157.
 [6] K. Peng and W. Zhu, “Pplace-ms: Methodologically faster poisson’s equation-based mixed-size global placement,” IEEE
     Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 43, no. 2, pp. 613–626, 2023.
 [7] Y. Chen, Z. Wen, Y. Liang, and Y. Lin, “Stronger mixed-size placement backbone considering second-order information,”
     in 2023 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer Aided Design (ICCAD). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–9.
 [8] K. Xue, R.-T. Chen, X. Lin, Y. Shi, S. Kai, S. Xu, and C. Qian, “Reinforcement learning policy as macro regulator rather
     than macro placer,” in The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems.
 [9] J. Jiang, Y. Pu, M. Li, Y. Zhao, P. Liao, Z. Zhang, Y. Lin, and B. Yu, “Regplace: Regularity-aware placement for full-system
     dnn accelerator designs,” IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, 2025.
[10] T.-C. Chen, P.-H. Yuh, Y.-W. Chang, F.-J. Huang, and D. Liu, “Mp-trees: A packing-based macro placement algorithm
     for mixed-size designs,” in Proceedings of the 44th annual Design Automation Conference, 2007, pp. 447–452.
[11] C.-H. Chang, Y.-W. Chang, and T.-C. Chen, “A novel damped-wave framework for macro placement,” in 2017 IEEE/ACM
     International Conference on Computer-Aided Design (ICCAD). IEEE, 2017, pp. 504–511.
[12] A. Vidal-Obiols, J. Cortadella, J. Petit, M. Galceran-Oms, and F. Martorell, “Rtl-aware dataflow-driven macro placement,”
     in 2019 Design, Automation & Test in Europe Conference & Exhibition (DATE). IEEE, 2019, pp. 186–191.
[13] A. B. Kahng, R. Varadarajan, and Z. Wang, “Rtl-mp: toward practical, human-quality chip planning and macro
     placement,” in Proceedings of the 2022 International Symposium on Physical Design, 2022, pp. 3–11.

                                                               25
[14] ——, “Hier-rtlmp: A hierarchical automatic macro placer for large-scale complex ip blocks,” IEEE Transactions on
     Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 43, no. 5, pp. 1552–1565, 2023.
[15] Innovus User Guide, 23rd ed., Cadence Design Systems.
[16] J. Cong and M. Xie, “A robust mixed-size legalization and detailed placement algorithm,” IEEE Transactions on Computer-
     Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 27, no. 8, pp. 1349–1362, 2008.
[17] Y. Lin, D. Z. Pan, H. Ren, and B. Khailany, “Dreamplace 2.0: Open-source gpu-accelerated global and detailed placement
     for large-scale vlsi designs,” in 2020 China Semiconductor Technology International Conference (CSTIC). IEEE, 2020, pp.
     1–4.
[18] J. Achiam, S. Adler, S. Agarwal, L. Ahmad, I. Akkaya, F. L. Aleman, D. Almeida, J. Altenschmidt, S. Altman, S. Anadkat
     et al., “Gpt-4 technical report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023.
[19] D. Guo, D. Yang, H. Zhang, J. Song, R. Zhang, R. Xu, Q. Zhu, S. Ma, P. Wang, X. Bi et al., “Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing
     reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948, 2025.
[20] H. Wang, T. Fu, Y. Du, W. Gao, K. Huang, Z. Liu, P. Chandak, S. Liu, P. Van Katwyk, A. Deac et al., “Scientific discovery
     in the age of artificial intelligence,” Nature, vol. 620, no. 7972, pp. 47–60, 2023.
[21] J. Ahn, R. Verma, R. Lou, D. Liu, R. Zhang, and W. Yin, “Large language models for mathematical reasoning: Progresses
     and challenges,” in Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational
     Linguistics: Student Research Workshop, 2024, pp. 225–237.
[22] S. Hong, M. Zhuge, J. Chen, X. Zheng, Y. Cheng, J. Wang, C. Zhang, Z. Wang, S. K. S. Yau, Z. Lin et al., “Metagpt:
     Meta programming for a multi-agent collaborative framework,” in The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
     Representations.
[23] B. Romera-Paredes, M. Barekatain, A. Novikov, M. Balog, M. P. Kumar, E. Dupont, F. J. Ruiz, J. S. Ellenberg, P. Wang,
     O. Fawzi et al., “Mathematical discoveries from program search with large language models,” Nature, vol. 625, no. 7995,
     pp. 468–475, 2024.
[24] M. Liu et al., “Verilogeval: Evaluating large language models for verilog code generation,” in ICCAD. IEEE, 2023.
[25] K. Chang et al., “Data is all you need: Finetuning llms for chip design via an automated design-data augmentation
     framework,” in DAC, 2024.
[26] Y. Fu et al., “Gpt4aigchip: Towards next-generation ai accelerator design automation via large language models,” in
     ICCAD. IEEE, 2023.
[27] W. Banzhaf, F. D. Francone, R. E. Keller, and P. Nordin, Genetic programming: an introduction: on the automatic evolution
     of computer programs and its applications. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc., 1998.
[28] M. O’Neill, L. Vanneschi, S. Gustafson, and W. Banzhaf, “Open issues in genetic programming,” Genetic Programming
     and Evolvable Machines, vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 339–363, 2010.
[29] A. Sypula, P. Yin, J. Lacomis, C. Le Goues, E. J. Schwarts, and G. Neubig, “Learning to superoptimize real-world
     programs,” in Deep Learning for Code Workshop (ICLR 2022 Workshop), 2022.
[30] D. J. Mankowitz, A. Michi, A. Zhernov, M. Gelmi, M. Selvi, C. Paduraru, E. Leurent, S. Iqbal, J.-B. Lespiau, A. Ahern
     et al., “Faster sorting algorithms discovered using deep reinforcement learning,” Nature, vol. 618, no. 7964, pp. 257–263,
     2023.
[31] F. Liu, T. Xialiang, M. Yuan, X. Lin, F. Luo, Z. Wang, Z. Lu, and Q. Zhang, “Evolution of heuristics: Towards efficient
     automatic algorithm design using large language model,” in Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning.
[32] F. Liu et al., “A systematic survey on large language models for algorithm design,” arXiv, 2024.
[33] C. Yang, X. Wang, Y. Lu, H. Liu, Q. V. Le, D. Zhou, and X. Chen, “Large language models as optimizers,” in The Twelfth
     International Conference on Learning Representations.
[34] G. Jawahar, M. Abdul-Mageed, L. Lakshmanan, and D. Ding, “Llm performance predictors are good initializers for
     architecture search,” in Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024, 2024, pp. 10 540–10 560.
[35] X. Yao, J. Jiang, Y. Zhao, P. Liao, Y. Lin, and B. Yu, “Evoplace: Evolution of optimization algorithms for global placement
     via large language models,” IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, 2026.
[36] A. Novikov, N. Vũ, M. Eisenberger, E. Dupont, P.-S. Huang, A. Z. Wagner, S. Shirobokov, B. Kozlovskii, F. J. Ruiz, A. Mehra-
     bian et al., “Alphaevolve: A coding agent for scientific and algorithmic discovery,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.13131,
     2025.
[37] C. Yu, R. Liang, C.-T. Ho, and H. Ren, “Autonomous code evolution meets np-completeness,” arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2509.07367, 2025.
[38] M. Andrews and S. Witteveen, “Gpu kernel scientist: An llm-driven framework for iterative kernel optimization,” arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2506.20807, 2025.
[39] S. Liu, J. Jiang, Z. He, Z. Wang, Y. Lin, B. Yu, and M. Wong, “Routing-aware legal hybrid bonding terminal assignment
     for 3d face-to-face stacked ics,” in Proceedings of the 2024 International Symposium on Physical Design, 2024, pp. 75–82.
[40] “c/ua is the Docker Container for Computer-Use AI Agents,” https://github.com/trycua/cua.



                                                               26
[41] C. Zhao, Z. Guo, R. Wang, Z. Wen, Y. Liang, and Y. Lin, “Helem-gr: Heterogeneous global routing with linearized
     exponential multiplier method,” in Proceedings of the 43rd IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer-Aided
     Design, 2024, pp. 1–9.
[42] C.-K. Cheng, A. B. Kahng, S. Kundu, Y. Wang, and Z. Wang, “Assessment of reinforcement learning for macro placement,”
     in Proceedings of the 2023 International Symposium on Physical Design, 2023, pp. 158–166.
[43] A. Amid, D. Biancolin, A. Gonzalez, D. Grubb, S. Karandikar, H. Liew, A. Magyar, H. Mao, A. Ou, N. Pemberton, P. Rigge,
     C. Schmidt, J. Wright, J. Zhao, Y. S. Shao, K. Asanović, and B. Nikolić, “Chipyard: Integrated design, simulation, and
     implementation framework for custom socs,” IEEE Micro, vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 10–21, 2020.




                                                            27
