VeriRAG: A Retrieval-Augmented Framework for
Automated RTL Testability Repair
Haomin Qi1,2,†,‡ , Yuyang Du1,† , Lihao Zhang1 , Soung Chang Liew1,∗ , Kexin Chen1 , Yining Du1,3,‡
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 2 University of California San Diego, 3 Hong Kong University
h.chee@link.cuhk.edu.hk, {yuydu, zl018, soung}@ie.cuhk.edu.hk, kxchen@cse.cuhk.edu.hk, yiningdu@connect.hku.hk

arXiv:2507.15664v3 [cs.AR] 9 May 2026

1

Abstract—Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated
immense potential in computer-aided design (CAD), particularly
for automated debugging and verification within electronic design
automation (EDA) tools. However, Design for Testability (DFT)
remains a relatively underexplored area. This paper presents
VeriRAG, the first LLM-assisted DFT-EDA framework. VeriRAG
leverages a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) approach
to enable LLM to revise code to ensure DFT compliance. VeriRAG integrates (1) an autoencoder-based similarity measurement
model for precise retrieval of reference RTL designs for the LLM,
and (2) an iterative code revision pipeline that allows the LLM
to ensure DFT compliance while maintaining synthesizability. To
support VeriRAG, we introduce VeriDFT, a Verilog-based DFT
dataset curated for DFT-aware RTL repairs. VeriRAG retrieves
structurally similar RTL designs from VeriDFT, each paired with
a rigorously validated correction, as references for code repair.
With VeriRAG and VeriDFT, we achieve fully automated DFT
correction – resulting in a 7.72-fold improvement in successful
repair rate compared to the zero-shot baseline (Fig. 5 in Section
V). Ablation studies further confirm the contribution of each
component of the VeriRAG framework. We open-source our data,
models, and scripts at https://github.com/HarminChee/VeriRAG.
Index Terms—Design for testability, computer-aided design,
large language models, retrieval-augmented generation

I. I NTRODUCTION
Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs)
have demonstrated significant potential in enhancing
computer-aided design (CAD) workflows, particularly in
automated debugging and verification of hardware description
languages (HDLs) [1, 2]. However, despite the growing
interest in LLM-empowered CAD tools, the domain
of design for testability (DFT) remains comparatively
underexplored. Unlike functional verification, which
establishes behavioral correctness, DFT at RTL aims to
secure observability/controllability and test access properties
(e.g., scan readiness, safe clock/reset handling) that enable
robust ATPG and manufacturing test.
As systems scale to millions of transistors and face tight
timing, yield, and power constraints, addressing testability at
the register-transfer level (RTL) stage becomes imperative –
resolving DFT issues early enables synthesis tools to optimize
area and facilitate reuse without requiring repeated fixes [3, 4].
Moreover, many system-on-chip (SoC) designs integrate IP
† H.

Qi and Y. Du contributed equally to this work.
conducted during internship at IE Department, CUHK.
Liew (soung@ie.cuhk.edu.hk) is the corresponding author.
The work was partially supported by the Shen Zhen-Hong Kong-Macao
technical program (Type C) under Grant No. SGDX20230821094359004.
‡ Work
∗ S. C.

cores from diverse sources, making RTL-level testability crucial for meeting fault coverage goals and minimizing iterative
cycles of synthesis, verification, and automatic test pattern
generation (ATPG). In practice, engineers still rely heavily on
time-consuming manual processes to ensure DFT compliance.
There is an urgent need for automated approaches to perform
DFT-oriented HDL code repairs[5, 6].
We propose VeriRAG — a retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) framework for efficient LLM-based RTL repair for
DFT compliance — along with an associated DFT dataset
named VeriDFT. VeriRAG incorporates (1) an autoencoder
trained by the contrastive learning method to identify DFTrelated hardware similarities, and (2) an iterative error correction pipeline guided by compiler diagnostics and DFT error
reports. VeriDFT is curated from an open-sourced Verilog
dataset [7], augmented by our manual annotations to capture
classic DFT errors in Verilog HDLs.
Given a Verilog code snippet potentially requiring DFTcompliance code revisions, VeriRAG analyzes the hardware
structure of the RTL design and retrieves the most similar
example from the VeriDFT dataset based on both hardware
structure and DFT errors. The retrieved example, along with
our manually edited solution for DFT compliance, serves as a
tailored in-context reference to guide the LLM’s correction of
the given Verilog code snippet. Each reference in the library
is paired with a validated fix, which mitigates the risk of
misleading edits from mismatched or unverified exemplars.
Importantly, VeriRAG’s error correction mechanism iteratively refines the RTL design by leveraging compiler diagnostics and DFT error reports generated by electronic design
automation (EDA) tools. This iterative process ensures that
the modifications effectively address DFT concerns while
preserving the design’s synthesizability and logical integrity. A
repair is accepted only if (i) the design remains synthesizable,
(ii) no DFT violations are reported, and (iii) a final logic
equivalence check (LEC) passes against the original.
To validate its effectiveness and robustness across diverse
language models, we evaluate VeriRAG using several state-ofthe-art LLMs, including GPT-o1, Grok-3, GPT-4o, Claude-3.7Sonnet, and Gemini-2.5-Pro. Among these models, GPT-o1
achieves the highest rate of success for DFT error correction
— a successful correction is defined as eliminating DFT errors
while retaining synthesizability and logical equivalence. Given
the inherent complexity of this task, the overall success rate
remains modest, with GPT-o1 achieving a 53.76% success rate

on the test set. Despite this, the result represents a significant
milestone, marking a 7.72-fold improvement over the baseline
success rate of 6.96%, achieved by the same LLM using naive
prompting strategies (see Fig. 5 in Section V). Comprehensive
ablation studies were conducted to validate the necessity of
each component within VeriRAG.
As an initial effort in the filed, this paper makes the
following contributions:
• VeriRAG Framework for DFT-Compliance Code Repair: We put forth VeriRAG, a RAG-based pipeline that
leverages an autoencoder-driven similarity model and an
iterative, compiler-guided revision loop to improve LLM
performance on DFT-oriented Verilog repair tasks.
• Domain-Specific Dataset VeriDFT: To support VeriRAG, we construct VeriDFT, the first RTL design dataset
that not only catalogs representative DFT error patterns
but also supplies corresponding manually validated corrections for each example. VeriDFT fills a critical gap in
hardware testability research, offering high-quality data
tailored for DFT-driven retrieval and repair.
• Benchmarks and Open-Source Contributions: We conduct extensive evaluations of VeriRAG, establishing the
first benchmarking baseline for LLM-based DFT error
corrections at the RTL stage. To foster reproducibility
and future research, we release all related resources,
including (1) the reference implementation of VeriRAG,
(2) the VeriDFT dataset, and (3) EDA scripts for compiler
diagnostics, DFT error reporting, and logic equivalence
check (LEC).
II. BACKGROUND AND R ELATED W ORKS
A. LLM for CAD
LLMs are increasingly being used in CAD, supporting
tasks ranging from high-level synthesis to RTL bug detection. Recent studies have shown that LLMs can assist with
targeted design improvements, automate documentation, and
even interface with EDA tools for power and timing analysis
based on user inputs [8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13]. However, most of
these efforts have focused on functional correctness, such as
verifying data paths or refining structural descriptions, while
largely neglecting the critical aspect of testability [14]. Our
work addresses this gap by targeting DFT compliance at the
RTL level, where success requires not only compilable edits
but also the elimination of DFT violations and preservation
of logical equivalence. In contrast to repository- or functionoriented frameworks (e.g., AutoVCoder; RTLRepoCoder) that
primarily pursue functional completion or synthesis-aligned
correctness, our setting is testability-driven and closes the loop
with tool-based DFT diagnostics and a final logic equivalence
check (LEC).
B. DFT at RTL level
Conventional DFT techniques — such as scan-chain insertion [15], boundary scan [16], and built-in self-test [17]
— primarily operate at the gate level or during physical
implementation. While these methods automate many aspects

of test generation and reduce manual effort in late design
stages, they do not address defects introduced at the RTL
stage. Consequently, designers must rely on linting and static
analysis tools to identify code-quality issues. The systematic
identification and correction of DFT-related errors, particularly those involving internal clocking or asynchronous resets, remains labor-intensive and requires significant expertise
[18].From a process perspective, gate-level DFT insertion
cannot reliably repair RTL-origin violations (e.g., internally
generated clocks or uncontrollable resets); therefore, catching
and fixing such patterns early at RTL is crucial for avoiding
repeated synthesis–ATPG iterations and schedule risks. We
focus on four representative RTL-level DFT patterns: ACNCPI
(asynchronous set/reset not controllable from primary inputs),
CLKNPI (internally generated or gated clocks), CDFDAT (a
clock net used as data), and FFCKNP (flip-flop–driven clocks).
C. RAG for RTL design
RAG combines generative modeling with the retrieval of
relevant external knowledge to enhance performance. When
employing RAG for our purpose, code templates and bug-fix
repositories can be leveraged to guide language model outputs,
improving both the precision and correctness of LLM-assisted
code repairs [19, 20]. For RTL design, previous retrievalbased methods [21] have shown that proactively identifying
and reusing well-validated IP and design blocks can significantly improve development efficiency. However, applying
RAG to DFT repair introduces a unique challenge: defining
and measuring “similarity” for the precise retrieval of the most
relevant reference from the knowledge base. In particular, DFT
cues (clocks, resets, scan enables) are sparse and topologydependent, so text-level similarity is insufficient. We therefore
adopt a structure-aware retrieval formulation that quantifies
hardware similarity with respect to DFT-relevant connectivity,
enabling precise selection of validated reference–fix pairs
within the RAG loop.
D. Deep Learning for Hardware and DFT Error Analysis
Deep learning has recently become a powerful tool for
hardware analysis, achieving notable results in power modeling [22], defect localization [23], and timing optimization
[24, 25]. Most existing methods cast hardware analysis as
classification or regression tasks, such as anomaly detection,
layout optimization, or performance prediction. In the context
of DFT, a complementary line of work learns embeddings of
RTL structures so that designs sharing DFT-relevant topologies
are close in a latent space; similarity can then be computed
(e.g., via cosine distance) to retrieve a small number of
validated references that guide subsequent edits. Our study
situates DFT-oriented similarity learning within this landscape
and employs it strictly as a retrieval component, while the
actual code repair is governed by compiler/DFT diagnostics
and LEC-based acceptance.

III. T HE V ERI DFT DATASET
A. Data Cleaning and Data partition
Our VeriDFT dataset builds upon a publicly available data
collection containing 108,971 Verilog code samples [7]. The
original dataset contains substantial DFT-irrelevant content
that may impair the effectiveness of downstream analysis.
Comprehensive data cleaning is required. The preprocessing
steps outlined below address issues such as non-functional
files, extraneous modules, and compilation errors.
First, we filter out Verilog files without meaningful logic
functionality, such as testbenches and module wrappers. While
these files are essential for simulation, they do not contain
circuit designs relevant to DFT analysis. Second, we notice
that many designs depend on pre-defined low-level modules
or built-in IP cores provided by EDA tools (e.g., Xilinx IP
cores in Vivado). Although our EDA tools report errors due
to missing IP cores, many of these RTL designs still contain
synthesizable logic beyond the instantiation of these unavailable modules. To use such designs in our work, we substitute
unavailable IP cores with blank modules with appropriate
interfaces to bypass the compilation errors. After that, we
compile the Verilog code using Xcelium, employing HAL
to generate a customized constraint file for the compilation
process.
The EDA compiler validates the synthesizability of RTL
logic in each Verilog file, filtering out unsynthesizable designs.
Meanwhile, the compiler also provides DFT-related information within the code including (1) the type of each DFT
violation in the code, and (2) the specific line in which the
DFT violation happens. Only four major types of DFT errors
(ACNCPI, CLKNPI, CDFDAT, and FFCKNP, as discussed in
the related works) are considered in this paper, while RTL
designs containing other DFT error types are excluded from
the dataset. For better focus, we also filtered out RTL designs
containing multiple types of DFT violations, keeping those
with single DFT error only.1
We obtained a total of 437 Verilog files with the above
process. The proportion of DFT error types and the distribution
of code length (in “number of lines”) are given in Fig. 1a and
Fig. 1b, respectively.
The 437 files in VeriDFT are partitioned as follows. A relatively small training set is used to capture key characterization
patterns. Most of the designs are reserved for rigorous testing
of the framework.
Training (see Section IV-A): Approximately 20% (85 files)
are used to train the autoencoder network using the contrastive
learning approach. These training files are selected to encompass all DFT error types, ensuring the model encountered
representative examples of each category.
Testing (see Section IV-B): (i) Reference Set – Approximately 8% (35 files) are designated as the reference dataset
1 As an initial effort in this field, we start from RTL designs with single
type of DFT violation within the four critical types. Additional DFT error
types, as well as more complex RTL designs with multiple DFT violations
will be investigated in future works.

(a)

(b)

Fig. 1: Statistic overview of the VeriDFT dataset: (a) proportion of
DFT-related error types, and (b) code length distribution histogram.

during testing. Each RTL design in this reference set is paired
with a validated revision – the revised version has been
compiled with Xcelium and verified by Cadence Conformal
LEC to ensure logical equivalence and DFT compliance. This
curated set serves as a fixed library of retrieval examples during the RAG code repair process. (ii) Test Set – The remaining
72% of the dataset (317 files) are used as the testing dataset
to evaluate the performance of VeriRAG. During testing, an
input RTL design from the test set and each reference sample
from the reference set are passed through the autoencoder
to generate their embedding vectors. The cosine similarity
between the two embedding vectors is computed to identify
the similarity between the input RTL design and the reference
design. After the similarity measurement, the most relevant
reference RTL sample, paired with the associated manual
revision, is retrieved as the LLM’s RAG reference to revise
the given input RTL design to ensure DFT compliance.
B. Verilog-JSON Conversion to Capture Hardware Similarity
This subsection explains our motivation in using an EDAgenerated JSON file for representing the hardware structure
in an RTL design and introduces how the Verilog–JSON
conversion is conducted.
As the input to the autoencoder network, an RTL design
should first be converted into a representation that retains essential information about the circuit’s hardware structure while
filtering out irrelevant implementation details. While Verilog
codes and design netlists are straightforward representations
that allow for textual similarity computations as described in
prior works [26, 27], they introduce DFT-irrelevant details
that can distract the autoencoder. Specifically, Verilog code
contains hardware-irrelevant information such as variable and
parameter naming. Design netlists, on the other hand, include
excessive low-level hardware details, such as the LUT-based
implementation of gates. Fig. 2(b) and Fig. 2(c) give specific
examples to illustrate the drawbacks of using Verilog code and
design netlists for measuring design similarity.
To obtain the desired RTL representation, we transform
Verilog designs into structured JSON files using Yosys, an
open-source EDA synthesis tool. As illustrated in Fig. 2(d),
these JSON files are derived from netlists and emphasize topological connections among fundamental hardware structures

(e.g., combinational/sequential logic, clock/data paths) instead
of their implementation details (e.g., how the gate is realized
with a look up table). This transformation captures the circuit
topology while eliminating extraneous details.
As an important data pre-processing step before the model
training and testing, we convert all RTL designs in VeriDFT
into their JSON representations.

Meanwhile, Section III-B detailed how we generate the JSON
representation of an RTL design with Yosys.
This section presents the training process for the autoencoder network, which maps an RTL design into a vector
representation that intrinsically captures both (1) and (2)
aspects of the design. As mentioned in Section III-A, the
similarity between two RTL designs is quantified using the
where
the weight
in corresponding
each dimension
of xrepresentations
indicates the discrimcosine
similarity
of their
vector
inative
importance
of a corresponding token across the entire
from
the autoencoder
outputs.

dataset. This encoding serves as the input to our subsequent

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

To this end, we train a multi-task encoder-decoder netautoencoder-based embedding pipeline.
work with the training data in VeriDFT (Fig.3 (a)). First,
3) Multi-Task
Autoencoder and
with
Contrastive
we vectorize
JSON representations
DFT
error labels Learning:
of
Given
the
TF-IDF
vectors
x,
the
primary
objectives
the RTL designs in the training dataset. For the former,
we of the
embedding
procedure- Inverse
are: (1)
to compress
each(TFvector into
apply
the Term Frequency
Document
Frequency
a compact
latent
representation
and description
(2) to enforce
IDF)
vectorization
scheme
to convert a zJSON
into clusternumerical
x. This vectorization
method
has been
proven
specificvector
separability
in latent space,
ensuring
that
files exhibitto be
forDFT
capturing
patternscloser
in hardware
ingeffective
the same
error structural
patterns reside
together.
representations
[28,
29].
For
the
implementation
of
TF-IDF
a) Architecture.: We define a multi-task autoencoder M
encoder, we use the default smoothing and sublinear term
as follows:
frequency scaling provided by the Python scikit-learn toolbox,
and we set x toz be
vector.cFor
latter,
= afθ512-dimensional
(x), x̂ = gϕ (z),
= hthe
ψ (z),
we construct a four-dimensional binary vector y with a simple
where
the encoder
reduces
a 512-dimensional
label
encoding
method, f
using
binary
of the vector to TF-IDF
θ (·) each
denote
the to
existence
one type ofL,DFT
i.e.,gy(i)
0
vector
a latentofdimension
the error,
decoder
reconstructs
ϕ (·) =
means
absence
error
type #i in
design,
the the
input
from of
z, DFT
and the
classifier
hψthe
(·) RTL
predicts
one of four
while
y(i) =
1 means
thelatent
existence
of DFT error
#i in the
cluster
labels.
The
dimension
L is type
typically
set to 128.
RTL design. Note for the dataset construction in Section III
b) Training Objectives.: Let y be the cluster label for
that this paper, as an initial effort in the field, considers RTL
each
input vector x. We define a loss L composed of three
designs with a single type of DFT violation, i.e., y is a one-hot
terms:
vector in essence.

Fig. 2: Verilog-to-JSON transformation: (a) circuit diagram; (b)

RTL of
implementation;
(c) detailed
netlist withprocess:
lowFig.corresponding
2: An illustration
the Verilog-to-JSON
transformation
α CrossEntropy
y + β Lcontrast (z, y),
L training
= ∥x −process
x̂∥2 +follows
The
the multi-taskc,encoder-decoder
level
look
up
table
(LUT)
implementation
(a
distraction
for
similarity
{z
}
|
| {z }
|
{z
}
(a) shows the circuit diagram, and (b) presents the corresponding RTL
training pipeline
as in [30], in classification
which an encoder f (·),contrastive
a
measurement); (c)
(d) JSON
representation
Yosys capturing
reconstruction
implementation.
provides
a detailedgenerated
netlist, by
including
low-level
between
major logic which
gates and
sequential decoder g(·), and a DFT-error classifier h(·) are optimized
(3)
looktopological
up table connections
(LUT)-based
implementation,
is unnecessary
elements. In this work, “hardware structure” refers to these gate- together
a single
loss (see factors.
Fig.3 (a) The
for the
interwhereunder
α and
β arejoint
weighting
contrastive
term
for level
measuring
RTL
design
similarity.
In
contrast,
(d)
displays
the
topologies, reflecting the structural context critical to DFT error
between that
the encoder,
and the classifier).
JSON
representation generated by Yosys, which effectively capturesconnectivities
Lcontrast imposes
latent decoder
representations
of samples with
patterns.

the topological connections between gates and serves as a concise
and structurally informative input for similarity analysis.

the same
remain
close, of
while
to
The
overallcluster
loss islabel
defined
per batch
size those
B as belonging
the
different
satisfy a margin
weighted
sumclusters
of a reconstruction
term m:
L1 , a classification
IV. M ETHODOLOGY
(
term L2 , and a contrastive
term L3 . Note that the decoder
∥zi as
− auxiliary
zj ∥2 , supervisors to ensure
if yi =
and
classifier
serve
only
theyj ,
presents and
the implementation
of VeriRAG.
2
(4)
contrast =
1) This
JSONsection
Abstraction
Clustering: We
begin byFig.
con-encoderLperforms
good
feature
max
0, mmappings
− ∥zi − zinj ∥its ,vectorization
otherwise.
3(a) pertains to the training of the autoencoder, and Fig. 3(b)
verting each Verilog file into a Json structure that encapsu-process. Therefore, this paper does not present the training
pertains to the overall application, where the autoencoder is
In this
configuration,
the multi-task
setting readers
simultaneously
latesused
module
we read RTL
an Excel
of decoder
and classifier.
We refer interested
at theparameters.
front end toConcurrently,
identify the reference
designfiledetails
to
Section
III
of
[31]
for
a
detailed
introduction
of
the clusterencourages
faithful
reconstruction
and
discriminative
containing
four
binary
indicators
of
DFT
errors:
ACNCPI,
most similar to a given input RTL design. The most-similar
4
individual
loss
components
used
for
decoder
and
classifier.
ing.
This
leads
to
latent
vectors
that
cluster
structurally
and
CLKNPI,
FFCKNP,
and
CDFDAT.
Let
u
∈
R
denote
the
reference design provides the reference for the subsequent
Before
presenting
the
overall
loss
function,
we
first
elaborate
semantically similar Verilog files, especially when they share
vector
fourcode
binary
features.
We then
LLMoftothese
perform
repair
on the given
inputapply
RTL k-means
design
on identical
the three loss
the loss function below:
to ensure
DFT
DFTterms
errorwithin
profiles.
clustering
[20]
tocompliance.
partition the dataset into four groups:

and Similarity
Upon
For 4)theEmbedding
k th sample Generation
of batched inputs,
the encoderScoring:
takes
(1)the completion
of the
prescribed
epochs,
the encoder
512-dimensional
numerical
vectortraining
xk as input
and genj∈{1,2,3,4}
VeriRAG evaluates the similarity of RTL designs on two erates
a 128-dimensional
vectorvector
outputxizis
i.e., mapped
parameters
are frozen.embedding
Each TF-IDF
k , then
where
the of
centroid
of clusterand
j. Each
JSON filezk to
key µaspects:
(1) type
DFT violation,
(2) hardware
= af (x
decoder
takes
andsimilarity
generates measure
k ). The
k asAinput
latent
vector
zi via
fθ z(·).
cosine
j represents
preceding
III-A
explained which
how we
vector
x̂
,
i.e.,
x̂
=
g(z
).
The
Mean
thusstructure.
obtains aThe
cluster
label inSection
{0, 1, 2,
3}, denoting
DFTthe isreconstructed
k
k
k
computed between every pair (zi , zj ), forming
an N × N
obtain
the DFT-error
type labels exhibits.
that denote the type of DFT Squared
Error
(MSE)
reconstruction
loss
L
ensures
that
the
1
error
signature
it predominantly
matrix for N JSON files:
in an
RTL design by
compilation
all details within the
2)violation
TF-IDF
Vectorization
of analyzing
FlattenedtheJSON:
Eachlog.
Jsonembedding vector faithfully preserves
zi · zj
s
=
.
(5)
ij
file is converted into a single textual representation by recur∥zi ∥∥zj ∥
sively traversing its hierarchical structure: dictionary entries
are concatenated as key-value tokens, while list elements are A larger value of sij signifies a greater degree of structural and
enumerated and appended as discrete segments. This flattening error-type alignment. This similarity matrix is subsequently
process captures both structural and semantic attributes of the parsed to detect pairs whose scores exceed a specified threshA. Trainingcluster
Autoencoder
= arg Network
min

∥u − µj ∥2 ,

Autoencoder based
Contrastive Learning Network

Given Reference
Design Code

Given Input
Testing Code

HAL
Compile Check

Encoder f(·)

x

Yes
No

Cadence Conformal
LEC Check

Vectorization

Vectorization

JSON. Format
Design Code

Full Connected
Layer h(·)

Encoder f(·)

c
Vectorization

Dncoder g(·)

y

DFT Error
Type
Calculate Cross
Entropy (c, y)

a. Network
Training
Stage

Vectorization

Normalized z

Embedding z

Select the Highest Similarity
Reference Code

Frozen Network

Frozen Network

Vector Representation A

Vector Representation B

^
x

x

Contrastive Loss
Module (z, y)

L2

FINAL
CORRECTED！

Encoder f(·)

y

L3

b. VeriRAG
Application
Stage

MSE Reconstruction
Loss

L1

LLMs

Cosine Similarity
Calculation

(a)

DFT Background
Knowledge

Target Input RTL Design Code

(b)

Fig. 3: The VeriRAG framework – (a) training of autoencoder network, (b) RAG-based code revision pipeline in the testing process.

input JSON representation:
L1 =

1
B

B
X

k=1

Finally, with the above background, we give the expression
of the loss function as
2

∥xk − x̂k ∥2

(1)

We also want the encoder output zk to capture the feature
about the DFT error violation within the associated RTL
design. To this end, we introduce the classification loss term
in the general loss function. Specifically, zk is fed to a classification network implemented with a fully connected layer. The
output of the classification network is a 4-dimensional vector
ck = h(zk ). The classification loss term L2 is defined as the
cross entropy between ck and the associated DFT error label
yk , computed per sample and averaged across the same batch
of size:
4
B
1 XX
L2 = −
yk (i) log Pk (i)
(2)
B
i=1
k=1

where Pk is the post-softmax probability vector, and Pk (i)
can be written as:
exp(ck (i))
Pk (i) = P4
(3)
j=1 exp(ck (j))

We further introduce a contrastive term in the loss function
to encourage embeddings of similar DFT error labels to be
closer while pushing those with significantly different labels
apart so that RTL designs with the same DFT error types are
likely to have embedding high similarity measure, and vice
versa. Following the classic setup in [30], given a batch of
norm
normalized embeddings {znorm
}B
=
k=1 , in which we have zk
k
zk /∥zk ∥, and the associated batch of label vector {yk }B
k=1 ,
we have:
(
2
znorm
− znorm
,
yp = yq
1 X
p
q

2
L3 =
norm
N p<q max m − znorm
− zq
, 0 , yp ̸= yq
p
(4)
where m is a hyperparameter representing the fixed margin,
describing the targeted minimum distance between two normalized embedding pairs with different labels. N denotes the
total number of unique unordered sample-pairs in the batch,
i.e. N = B(B − 1)/2.

L = L1 + αL2 + βL3

(5)

where we have α = 0.01 and β = 0.01 in our implementation.
B. Application of VeriRAG framework
The above training process ensures that the encoder network
can well identify the hardware structure and DFT violation of
a given RTL design input and properly encodes the above
information into the embedding vector. This subsection concerns the application of the encoder in the overall VeriRAG
framework.
Given the JSON representation of an input RTL design,
denote the associated embedding vector generated by the
encoder network by zT , where the superscript T indicates that
this is a testing input. Further, denote the embedding vector for
reference RTL design r in the reference dataset by zR
r , where
the superscript R indicates that this is a reference sample. The
similarity between the given RTL design and reference RTL
design r, denoted as sr , is defined as the cosine similarity
between zT and zR
r , i.e.,
sr =

zT · z R
r
,
∥zT ∥ ∥zR
r ∥

R
where zT = f (xT ), zR
r = f (xr ) (6)

After comparing the input RTL design and all reference
RTL designs in the reference dataset, we obtain a vector
of similarity score, i.e., s = ⟨s1 , s2 , . . . , sn ⟩, where n is
the number of reference RTL designs within the reference
dataset. By traversing this similarity vector s, we select the
reference RTL design with the highest similarity score (smax )
as the most relevant reference. We refer to the combination of
this reference design and its manually edited revision as the
“reference-answer pair”.
The VeriRAG framework leverages this reference-answer
pair retrieved from the reference dataset to iteratively refine
the target input Verilog code. Along with the reference-answer
pair, the initial prompt given to the LLM – which is responsible
for generating the DFT-compliance code – also contains (1) a
general description of the task, (2) a background introduction

Fig. 4: Success rates of preliminary DFT error corrections (without considering logical equivalence) for different LLMs and
ablation cases tested.
on testability principles in RTL design, and (3) detailed
definitions of the four DFT error types being considered.
Using these prompt inputs, the LLM generates an initial fix
for the target Verilog code. To ensure the revised Verilog code
is compilable and DFT-compliant, we introduce a feedback
loop to check the synthesizability and DFT violation of the
resulting design. If any compilation error or DFT violation is
found by the EDA compiler (Xcelium, in our implementation),
the compilation log will be provided to the LLM, which uses
this feedback to refine the code in the next iteration. This
process continues until a successful compilation is achieved
or the maximum number of iterations (K, set to 5 in our
implementation) is reached.
Once a successful revision passes the compilation check,
it undergoes a final Cadence Conformal Logic Equivalence
Check (LEC) to validate logical equivalence. Upon passing
this rigorous validation, the RTL design is marked as correctly
revised, concluding a successful iterative revision process.
V. E XPERIMENTS
This section evaluates VeriRAG by comparing it against
three ablation variants described below. The goal of these
experiments is to assess the contribution of each component
within VeriRAG to the DFT error correction.
Zero Shot: The tested LLM receives only the target Verilog
file containing DFT errors without any hints – no background
information or RTL design references are included in the
prompt. This straightforward baseline measures the generic
LLM’s ability to handle DFT errors in a single inference step
without iterative feedback and error correction.
No RAG: In addition to the RTL design requiring revision,
the LLM is provided with general DFT knowledge and brief
descriptions of the four specific DFT error types. This background information allows the LLM to better understand the
task. However, no reference RTL design or iterative refinement
process is involved.
Random RAG: Along with the general DFT background,
the LLM is given a Verilog sample randomly selected from the
reference dataset, paired with its corresponding revision. The
random reference design may not match the structure or error
type of the target RTL design. We adopted the aforementioned
iterative revision policy for Random RAG: for fairness, both
VeriRAG and Random RAG are allowed up to five errorcorrection attempts. In each iteration, the LLM receives the
most recent corrected version of the RTL (from the previous

round), along with its compiler diagnostics. Although the
reference sample remains unchanged, the input context evolves
iteratively based on the updated design and feedback, enabling
progressive refinement over iterations. This is the case for both
Random RAG and VeriRAG. The only difference between this
baseline and our method is in the retrieval policy – VeriRAG
uses the autoencoder to select the most relevant example, while
Random RAG selects references randomly.
As mentioned in Section III, the VeriDFT dataset comprises 35 reference RTL designs (each paired with a standard
revision) and 317 test files. In the following experiments,
we tested all RTL designs in the testing dataset to enable
comprehensive assessment using the reference dataset as the
retrieval knowledge base. Our experiments focus on two main
questions: (1) What proportion of the generated RTL revisions
can fully eliminate DFT error while remaining synthesizable?
(2) Among those revisions satisfying 1), what proportion also
preserves logical equivalence with the original design?
Here, (2) is a subset of (1). Both DFT error elimination
and synthesizability in (1) are verified by the compiler, so
we consider them together. The rest of this section addresses
these questions by testing five state-of-the-art LLMs: GPT-o1,
GPT-4o, Grok-3, Claude-3.7-Sonnet, and Gemini-2.5-Pro.
We next present experimental results for the tested LLMs
under different prompting approaches. Given the test dataset,
let AN S be the total number of RTL revisions generated. Let
N oErr denote the number of RTL revisions that are both
free of DFT errors and remain synthesizable, corresponding
to question (1) but not (2). Fig. 4 shows the preliminary DFT
error correction rate (N oErr/AN S) across different LLMs
and ablation variants. For these error-free RTL revisions, we
further conducted LEC. Let Eq be the number of logically
equivalent RTL designs, corresponding to satisfying both
question (1) and (2). Fig. 5 presents the ultimate success rate
(Eq/AN S) for different LLMs and all ablation cases.
Three key trends are evident across these experimental
results. First, the incremental integration of domain-specific
context and structured references consistently improves the
LLM’s abilities to correct DFT errors. Transitioning from
a Zero Shot setting to the advanced VeriRAG configuration
increases the ultimate success rates for all tested LLMs. These
findings support our central thesis: precise, structure-aware
RTL references, combined with the iterative code revision
pipeline, significantly outperform generic textual prompts or
random reference examples.

Fig. 5: Ultimate code revision success rates (with logical equivalence) for different LLMs and ablation cases tested.
Second, the results reveal notable variation in how different LLMs utilize incremental guidance. Grok-3 achieves
the largest relative gain, indicating its superior utilization of
structural references and iterative feedback, with its logic
equivalence rate rising from a minimal 2.85% with Zero Shot
to 40.26% with VeriRAG. GPT-4o also benefits markedly,
reaching 31.93% equivalence, while Claude-3.7-Sonnet and
Gemini-2.5-Pro plateau in the mid-20% range. These results
highlight that general purpose LLMs differ significantly in
their intrinsic abilities to integrate structured references and
iterative compiler feedback into effective RTL corrections.
Finally, GPT-o1 provides a meaningful upper-bound reference, clearly illustrating the potential of large-scale, generalpurpose LLMs in the VeriRAG framework. It achieves an
ultimate success rate of 53.76%, a 7.72-fold improvement over
its Zero Shot baseline. This impressive margin emphasizes
the variable win achieved with enhanced structural retrieval
and precise compiler-guided iterations, even without domainspecific tuning.
VI. C ONCLUSIONS AND O UTLOOK
We present VeriRAG, a retrieval-augmented framework for
repairing DFT errors at the RTL stage. Concretely, the approach employs an autoencoder trained with contrastive learning to retrieve structurally similar references from a newly
developed Verilog DFT dataset, VeriDFT. Leveraging these
targeted references, an LLM performs repairs through an
iterative Verilog code-revision loop guided by compiler and
DFT diagnostics. A candidate fix is accepted only when the
design remains synthesizable, contains no DFT violations,
and passes a final logic equivalence check (LEC), ensuring
that improvements in testability do not compromise functional
intent.
On a benchmark of 317 RTL designs, VeriRAG improves
the success rate across several state-of-the-art LLMs—for
example, from 3% to 40.26% with Grok-3 and from 6.96%
to 53.76% with GPT-o1 (13.42× and 7.72× improvements,
respectively). Ablation studies further indicate that iteration
alone is insufficient and that structure-aware retrieval is essential; results improve consistently from Zero-shot to NoRAG to Random-RAG to VeriRAG. Taken together, these
findings show that structurally aligned retrieval and toolguided iteration act as complementary levers for reliable RTLlevel DFT repair, yielding substantive gains without modifying
downstream tool flows.

This study has practical boundaries. The dataset focuses on
single-violation cases across four representative DFT types, reflecting a controlled setting for isolating effects. Blank-module
substitution is applied only when interfaces and connectivity
are preserved; cases that would suppress or fabricate diagnostics are excluded, though residual bias cannot be completely
ruled out. The reference library is intentionally modest in size
to stress retrieval quality and to make failure modes more
interpretable.
Looking forward, several directions appear promising. First,
domain-adaptive pretraining or fine-tuning of LLMs on Verilog and DFT corpora could strengthen sensitivity to logicalequivalence constraints [32, 33]. Second, lightweight formalin-the-loop checks (SEC/LEC) at each iteration may convert
equivalence gaps into actionable feedback, narrowing the
distance between preliminary and ultimate success [34]. Third,
moving beyond static Verilog-to-JSON vectorization toward
learnable (de)vectorizers that preserve logic-level invariants
could improve both retrieval fidelity and edit quality[35].
Finally, expanding the dataset to cover additional DFT types,
multi-violation designs, and a larger, more diverse set of
validated references would better stress-test retrieval at scale
and sharpen external validity. Collectively, these extensions
position VeriRAG as a practical foundation for integrating
LLMs into DFT-aware RTL workflows.
R EFERENCES
[1] J. Blocklove, S. Garg, R. Karri, and H. Pearce, “Evaluating llms for
hardware design and test,” in 2024 IEEE LLM Aided Design Workshop
(LAD). IEEE, 2024, pp. 1–6.
[2] F. Firouzi, D. Z. Pan, J. Gu, B. Farahani, J. Chaudhuri, Z. Yin, P. Ma,
P. Domanski, and K. Chakrabarty, “Chipmnd: Llms for agile chip
design,” in 2025 IEEE 43rd VLSI Test Symposium (VTS). IEEE, 2025,
pp. 1–10.
[3] L.-T. Wang, C.-W. Wu, and X. Wen, VLSI test principles and architectures: design for testability. Elsevier, 2006.
[4] G. Thakur, S. Jain, and H. Sohal, “Current issues and emerging
techniques for vlsi testing-a review,” Measurement: Sensors, vol. 24,
p. 100497, 2022.
[5] S. Alsaqer, S. Alajmi, I. Ahmad, and M. Alfailakawi, “The potential of
llms in hardware design,” Journal of Engineering Research, 2024.
[6] M. Abdollahi, S. F. Yeganli, M. A. Baharloo, and A. Baniasadi, “Hardware design and verification with large language models: A literature
survey, challenges, and open issues,” 2024.
[7] S. Thakur, B. Ahmad, Z. Fan, H. Pearce, B. Tan, R. Karri, B. DolanGavitt, and S. Garg, “Benchmarking large language models for automated Verilog RTL code generation,” in 2023 Design, Automation and
Test in Europe Conference and Exhibition (DATE), 2023, pp. 1–6.
[8] J. Blocklove, S. Garg, R. Karri, and H. Pearce, “Chip-Chat: Challenges and opportunities in conversational hardware design,” in 2023
ACM/IEEE 5th Workshop on Machine Learning for CAD (MLCAD),
2023, pp. 1–6.

[9] M. Liu, N. Pinckney, B. Khailany, and H. Ren, “VerilogEval: Evaluating
large language models for Verilog code generation,” in 2023 IEEE/ACM
International Conference on Computer Aided Design (ICCAD), 2023,
pp. 1–8.
[10] Y. Liu, C. Xu, Y. Zhou, Z. Li, and Q. Xu, “DeepRTL: Bridging verilog
understanding and generation with a unified representation model,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2502.15832, 2025.
[11] Y. Zhao, D. Huang, C. Li, P. Jin, M. Song, Y. Xu, Z. Nan, M. Gao,
T. Ma, L. Qi et al., “CodeV: Empowering LLMs with HDL generation
through multi-level summarization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10424,
2024.
[12] Y. Du, H. Deng, S. C. Liew, Y. Shao, K. Chen, and H. Chen, “LLM
for complex signal processing in FPGA-based software defined radios:
A case study on FFT,” in 2024 IEEE 100th Vehicular Technology
Conference (VTC2024-Fall), 2024, pp. 1–6.
[13] S. Thakur, B. Ahmad, H. Pearce, B. Tan, B. Dolan-Gavitt, R. Karri, and
S. Garg, “Verigen: A large language model for Verilog code generation,”
ACM Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems, vol. 29,
no. 3, pp. 1–31, 2024.
[14] Z. Zhao, R. Qiu, C. Lin, G. L. Zhang, B. Li, and U. Schlichtmann,
“Vrank: Enhancing verilog code generation from large language models
via self-consistency,” in 2025 26th International Symposium on Quality
Electronic Design (ISQED). IEEE, 2025, pp. 1–7.
[15] W. Wang, J. Wang, W. Wang, P. Liu, and S. Cai, “A secure DFT
architecture protecting crypto chips against scan-based attacks,” IEEE
Access, vol. 7, pp. 22 206–22 213, 2019.
[16] R. Barr, C.-H. Chiang, and E. Wallace, “End-to-end testing for boards
and systems using boundary scan,” in Proceedings International Test
Conference 2000 (IEEE Cat. No.00CH37159), 2000, pp. 585–592.
[17] H. Nagle, S. Roy, C. Hawkins, M. McNamer, and R. Fritzemeier,
“Design for testability and built-in self test: a review,” IEEE Transactions
on Industrial Electronics, vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 129–140, 1989.
[18] S. Harrison, P. Collins, and G. Noeninckx, “The implementation of ieee
std 1149.1 boundary scan test strategy within a cellular infrastructure
production environment,” in Proceedings International Test Conference
2000 (IEEE Cat. No.00CH37159), 2000, pp. 45–54.
[19] P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V. Karpukhin, N. Goyal,
H. Küttler, M. Lewis, W.-t. Yih, T. Rocktäschel et al., “Retrievalaugmented generation for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks,” Advances in
neural information processing systems, vol. 33, pp. 9459–9474, 2020.
[20] H. Qi, F. Yu, and C. Huang, “Graphcue for sdn configuration code
synthesis,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.17371
[21] Y.-S. Kung, T.-W. Tsui, and N.-H. Shieh, “Design and implementation
of a motion controller for XYZ table based on multiprocessor SoPC,”
in 2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference, 2009, pp. 241–246.
[22] A. Bhattacharya and S. G. Cloutier, “End-to-end deep learning framework for printed circuit board manufacturing defect classification,”
Scientific reports, vol. 12, no. 1, p. 12559, 2022.
[23] X. Wang, S. Gao, J. Guo, C. Wang, L. Xiong, and Y. Zou, “Deep
learning-based integrated circuit surface defect detection: Addressing
information density imbalance for industrial application,” International
Journal of Computational Intelligence Systems, vol. 17, no. 1, p. 29,
2024.
[24] Z. Guo, M. Liu, J. Gu, S. Zhang, D. Z. Pan, and Y. Lin, “A timing engine
inspired graph neural network model for pre-routing slack prediction,”
in Proceedings of the 59th ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference,
2022, pp. 1207–1212.
[25] N. Sivakumar, N. Suresh, and G. Arapana, “A deep learning based power
estimations mechanism for CMOS VLSI circuit,” ICTACT Journal on
Microelectronics, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 1471–1475, 2023.
[26] C. K. Roy and J. R. Cordy, “A survey on software clone detection
research,” Queen’s School of computing TR, vol. 541, no. 115, pp. 64–
68, 2007.
[27] M. Mondal, C. K. Roy, and K. A. Schneider, “A survey on clone
refactoring and tracking,” Journal of Systems and Software, vol. 159,
p. 110429, 2020.
[28] S. Thakur, B. Ahmad, Z. Fan, H. Pearce, B. Tan, R. Karri, B. DolanGavitt, and S. Garg, “Benchmarking large language models for automated verilog rtl code generation,” in 2023 Design, Automation & Test
in Europe Conference & Exhibition (DATE). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–6.
[29] K. Chen, J. Li, K. Wang, Y. Du, J. Yu, J. Lu, L. Li, J. Qiu, J. Pan,
Y. Huang et al., “Chemist-X: large language model-empowered agent
for reaction condition recommendation in chemical synthesis,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.10776, 2023.

[30] P. Khosla, P. Teterwak, C. Wang, A. Sarna, Y. Tian, P. Isola,
A. Maschinot, C. Liu, and D. Krishnan, “Supervised contrastive learning,” Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 33, pp.
18 661–18 673, 2020.
[31] J. Aneja, A. Schwing, J. Kautz, and A. Vahdat, “A contrastive learning
approach for training variational autoencoder priors,” Advances in neural
information processing systems, vol. 34, pp. 480–493, 2021.
[32] H. Qi, C. Huang, Z. Dai, and Y. Gao, “Governance-aware hybrid
fine-tuning for multilingual large language models,” 2025. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.17344
[33] H. Qi, Z. Dai, and C. Huang, “Hybrid and unitary peft for resourceefficient large language models,” American Journal of Computer
Science and Technology, vol. 8, no. 4, p. 242–255, Dec. 2025. [Online].
Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.11648/j.ajcst.20250804.17
[34] F. Cui, C. Yin, K. Zhou, Y. Xiao, G. Sun, Q. Xu, Q. Guo, Y. Liang,
X. Zhang, D. Song et al., “Origen: Enhancing rtl code generation with
code-to-code augmentation and self-reflection,” in Proceedings of the
43rd IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer-Aided Design,
2024, pp. 1–9.
[35] H. Qi, B. Liu, Z. Dai, and Y. Gao, “Topoedge: Topology-grounded
agentic framework for edge networking code generation and repair,”
2026. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.00569

