                                        Multimodal Chip Physical Design Engineer Assistant


                                                           Yun-Da Tsai                                  Chang-Yu Chao
                                                     National Taiwan University                    National Taiwan University
                                                         NVIDIA Research                         r13922001@csie.ntu.edu.tw
                                                   f08946007@csie.ntu.edu.tw

                                                        Liang-Yeh Shen                                 Tsung-Han Lin
arXiv:2510.15872v1 [cs.AR] 2 Jul 2025




                                                   National Taiwan University                University of California, Los Angeles
                                                 b10507008@csie.ntu.edu.tw                         lzh0212@g.ucla.edu

                                                  Haoyu Yang                        Mark Ho                          Yi-Chen Lu
                                                NVIDIA Research                  NVIDIA Research                  NVIDIA Research
                                               haoyuy@nvidia.com              chiatungh@nvidia.com                yilu@nvidia.com

                                                Wen-Hao Liu                       Shou-De Lin                       Mark Ren
                                               NVIDIA Research              National Taiwan University           NVIDIA Research
                                             wenhliu@nvidia.com             sdlin@csie.ntu.edu.tw              haoxingr@nvidia.com



                                                                                     Abstract
                                                 Modern chip physical design relies heavily on Electronic Design Automation
                                                 (EDA) tools, which often struggle to provide interpretable feedback or actionable
                                                 guidance for improving routing congestion. In this work, we introduce a Multi-
                                                 modal Large Language Model Assistant (MLLMA) that bridges this gap by not
                                                 only predicting congestion but also delivering human-interpretable design sugges-
                                                 tions. Our method combines automated feature generation through MLLM-guided
                                                 genetic prompting with an interpretable preference learning framework that models
                                                 congestion-relevant tradeoffs across visual, tabular, and textual inputs. We compile
                                                 these insights into a "Design Suggestion Deck" that surfaces the most influential
                                                 layout features and proposes targeted optimizations. Experiments on the CircuitNet
                                                 benchmark demonstrate that our approach outperforms existing models on both
                                                 accuracy and explainability. Additionally, our design suggestion guidance case
                                                 study and qualitative analyses confirm that the learned preferences align with real-
                                                 world design principles and are actionable for engineers. This work highlights the
                                                 potential of MLLMs as interactive assistants for interpretable and context-aware
                                                 physical design optimization.


                                        1   Introduction
                                        The field of chip physical design encompasses critical prediction tasks such as congestion, timing,
                                        Design Rule Check (DRC), and IR Drop. These tasks, traditionally tackled using Electronic Design
                                        Automation (EDA) tools, often suffer from slow processing speeds and limited ability to provide
                                        actionable guidance for design improvement. Existing approaches using image-to-image translation
                                        models focus primarily on prediction accuracy but lack interpretability and the ability to suggest
                                        corrective measures. This paper explores the potential of Multimodal Large Language Models
                                        (MLLMs) in providing interpretable predictions along with actionable suggestions to assist engineers
                                        in optimizing their designs. Recent advances in foundation models and instruction-tuned Large

                                        Preprint. Under review.
Language Models (LLMs) have led to impressive progress in tasks that require reasoning, code
generation, and interactive assistance. However, their application to chip physical design remains
largely underexplored. In particular, current EDA solutions lack the capability to provide real-time,
explainable, and multimodal assistance that integrates layout visuals, tabular metrics, and design
constraints into a unified decision-making process. We argue that a Multimodal Language Model
Assistant (MLLMA) tailored to chip physical design can fill this gap.
The motivation for this research is to address the gap between prediction accuracy and interpretability
in physical design tasks. While current models are adept at predicting various metrics such as
congestion and DRC violations, they fail to explain the underlying causes or offer corrective measures.
By leveraging multimodal LLMs, we aim to move beyond mere prediction and offer a framework that
provides both predictions and accompanying explanations. These explanations can be compiled into
a "Design Suggestion Deck" which assists engineers by presenting comprehensible, human-readable
reasoning to guide their design decisions. The primary research challenge is developing an MLLM-
based agent framework capable of processing multimodal data inputs, including geometric images,
tabular features, and circuit graphs, and providing interpretable predictions with actionable design
suggestions. Furthermore, we aim to compare this approach against baseline models to demonstrate
its effectiveness in improving design quality and interpretability.
Our method consists of two stages: (1) Automate Feature Engineering and Generation, and (2)
Interpretable Preferences Learning to Design Suggestion Deck. In the first stage, a Multimodal Large
Language Model (MLLM) agent generates and extracts numeric features from Macro Region, RUDY,
and RUDY pin images and text-based features from configuration and logs. Inspired by the Genetic
Instruct (Majumdar et al., 2024), a genetic algorithm incorporating mutation and crossover is applied
to expand the multimodal feature pool, with a deduplication process ensuring uniqueness. Feature
importance and cross validation scores are evaluated using a Random Forest model to guide feature
selection and refinement. The second stage uses these features and their importance scores to create
a Design Suggestion Deck. The MLLM agent translates important features into interpretable rules,
providing actionable guidance for chip design optimization.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:

       • Development of a multimodal LLM framework capable of handling geometric image
         features, tabular data, and circuit graph inputs for prediction tasks in physical design.
       • Design of an interpretable preference learning approach that generates interpretable predic-
         tions and actionable suggestions compiled into a "Design Suggestion Deck".
       • Evaluation of the proposed framework against the baseline models that demonstrate strong
         improvements in design quality and efficiency.


2     Related Work

2.1   Multimodal Language Model Assistant

Recent works such as Mipha (Zhu et al., 2024), MM-ReAct (Yang et al., 2023), and MultiModal-
GPT (Gong et al., 2023) demonstrate that aligning visual inputs with language reasoning modules
allows models to solve complex real-world tasks. Mipha, for example, focuses on efficiency by en-
abling multi-turn multimodal dialogue with domain grounding, while MM-ReAct leverages reasoning
traces and visual memory for tool-augmented perception.
In the context of chip design, prior efforts such as Chip-Chat (Blocklove et al., 2023) investigate
interactive co-design with conversational LLMs for hardware description generation, while Chip-
NeMo (Liu et al., 2023) introduces domain-adapted LLMs for industrial chip tasks including EDA
script generation and bug analysis. Unlike these works, which primarily focus on language-to-code
translation or domain adaptation, our approach leverages MLLMs for spatially grounded reasoning
over fine-grained layout features such as routing demand and macro placement. Additionally, we
explicitly model design tradeoffs through learned interpretable preferences, extending the role of
LLMs from passive code generators to interactive design assistants capable of justification and
feedback.


                                                  2
                                        (a) Feature Engineering                                                                                                            (b) Feature Scoring and Selection

                                                                                                                                                                       Random Forest Model                                               Importance Scoring

                       def rudy_gradient_variability(images):
                           """ Calculate the gradient variability of the RUDY image. """
                           tiles_size = 2.25
                           macro_image = images[0]
                           rudy_image = images[1]
                           rudy_pin_image = images[2]
     Routability
                          image_height, image_width = macro_image.shape
      Images              total_image_area = image_width * image_height                                                                                                    1) Train the model and                                       2) Scoring features with the
                          # Convert macro image to [0, 255] range                                                    id      feat #1    feat #2   ...   feat #n          record the validation score                                  importances in Random Forest
                          macro_image = np.uint8(macro_image * 255)
                          _, binary_image = cv2.threshold(macro_image, 127, 255, cv2.THRESH_BINARY)
                          contours, _ = cv2.findContours(binary_image, cv2.RETR_EXTERNAL, cv2.CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE)   1        0.76       1.28     ...   -0.32
                          num_macros = len(contours)

                          # Compute gradients using the Sobel operator                                               2        0.34       1.07     ...   -0.11                                       Feature Selecting
                          grad_x = cv2.Sobel(rudy_image, cv2.CV_64F, 1, 0, ksize=3)
                          grad_y = cv2.Sobel(rudy_image, cv2.CV_64F, 0, 1, ksize=3)
                          magnitude = cv2.magnitude(grad_x, grad_y)
                                                                                                                     ...       ...        ...     ...       ...

                          # Calculate gradient variability
                          gradient_variability = np.var(magnitude)
                                                                                                                     m        0.12       0.98     ...    0.46                                  score: 0.5 score: 0.3 score: 0.2 score: 0.1

                           feature_value = gradient_variability * (tiles_size ** 2)   # Convert to um^2
                                                                                                                           Processed Tabular Data
                           return {"rudy_gradient_variability": feature_value}
 Feature Engineering                                                                                                                                              Update Feature Pool
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3) Select the features with
       Codes                                                                                                                                                      for selected features                the top k scores




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mutation Prompt
feat #1
                                                                                                                                       Routability Sample                                                                 Please slightly mutate the feature into a
                                                                                                                                            Images                                                                        new related digital feature surrounding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...
feat #2                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Original feature:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          {feature}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          New mutated feature:
                                                                                                      MLLM                                                                    MLLM
feat #3                                                                                               Coding Agent                                                            Feature Agent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Crossover Prompt
                                               Generated Codes                                                                       Generated Features
            ...




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I will provide you with an example feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         list, please give me more features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...
feat #n                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Example feature list:
                                                                             Store in Feature Pool                                                                                                                       {feat_pool}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Now, generated 10 new features.

    Feature Pool
                                                                                                                                        (c) Feature Generation

   Figure 1: Overview of the Genetic Instruct framework. (a) Spatial metrics are extracted from
   routability images using domain-specific rules. (b) A Random Forest ranks and selects key features.
   (c) MLLM agents iteratively generate and mutate features via code, enriching the feature pool to
   improve downstream performance.




   2.2            Congestion Map Prediction

   ClusterNet (Min et al., 2023) focuses on predicting routing congestion caused by netlist topology
   using netlist clustering and Graph Neural Networks (GNNs). By employing the Leiden algorithm
   to generate cohesive clusters and developing a GNN-based model to generate cluster embeddings,
   ClusterNet achieves improved prediction performance and congestion optimization without requiring
   placement and routing (P&R) tools. CircuitNet (Chai et al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2023) provides an
   open-source dataset for machine learning applications in VLSI CAD, facilitating the development
   and benchmarking of ML models for tasks like congestion prediction and design rule check (DRC)
   violation prediction. The dataset includes diverse samples collected from various chip designs and
   supports comprehensive data, including routability, timing, and power metrics. CircuitFormer (Zou
   et al., 2023) introduces a novel approach by treating circuit components as point clouds and utilizing
   Transformer-based point cloud perception methods for feature extraction. This method enables
   direct feature extraction from raw data without any preprocessing, allows for end-to-end training,
   and achieves state-of-the-art performance in congestion prediction tasks on both the CircuitNet
   and ISPD2015 datasets, as well as in DRC violation prediction tasks on the CircuitNet dataset.
   MPGD (Yang et al., 2024) proposes Mini-Pixel Batch Gradient Descent, a plug-and-play optimization
   algorithm that focuses on the most informative entries in the congestion map. By integrating this
   method into predictive AI models for physical design flows, MPGD enhances congestion prediction
   accuracy and efficiency, demonstrating its effectiveness in optimizing chip design processes.



   3         Methodology

   Our proposed MLLM assistant consists of two core components: (1) automated feature generation and
   engineering, and (2) interpretable preference modeling for generating actionable design suggestions.


                                                                                                                               3
3.1     Automated Feature Generation and Engineering

Figure 1 illustrates our pipeline for automated feature generation and engineering. The approach
integrates domain-driven initial features, MLLM-guided mutation, and a feedback loop to iteratively
expand and refine a pool of predictive and interpretable features.


3.1.1     Initial Feature Types

We begin with two categories of raw features for routing congestion prediction:
Image-based layout features: Macro Region encodes macro and cell placement for global layout
context. RUDY (Routing Demand) highlights routing density hotspots. RUDY Pin Images capture
local pin density patterns affecting routing complexity.
Text-based configuration features: Logs from EDA tools include placement constraints, blockages,
net priorities, and timing directives. These symbolic features complement spatial representations with
interpretable design signals.


3.1.2     Genetic Instruct Feature Generation

We employ a Genetic-Instruct framework (Majumdar et al., 2024) to iteratively evolve and expand fea-
ture sets using MLLMs. The process consists of initialization, evaluation, variation, and deduplication
steps:
Initialization: The feature pool is seeded with handcrafted features that map visually and semantically
to congestion causes. Each feature includes a human-readable name and description. MLLMs are
prompted to generate extraction code, producing tabular data for training. Congestion severity is
labeled using the average congestion value in the 20 most-congested grid cells of each sample.
Evaluation and Selection: A Random Forest model is trained on the extracted features and labels.
The model’s feature importance scores act as the fitness function, guiding the pruning of low-impact
features. We retain the top k=20 candidates for the next generation.
Crossover and Mutation: New features are created by prompting MLLMs with few-shot examples
drawn from high-ranking features (crossover), or by mutating individual features with probabilities
based on a rank-sensitive version
                             r
                                  of the Ebbinghaus forgetting curve. Specifically, mutation proba-
bility is defined as: M = e− N , where r is the feature’s rank and N is the total number of features.
Higher-ranked features have greater mutation probability, encouraging diversity while maintaining
quality.
Deduplication: To avoid redundancy, newly proposed features are compared against the existing pool
using a Deduplicator-MLLM. It evaluates semantic similarity in descriptions and removes duplicates
with reasoned justifications.
This process iteratively refines the feature space, producing a diverse, interpretable, and model-
relevant set of features for downstream congestion prediction. Some generated feature example is
shown in Figure 2 and the complete list of generated feature pool is in Appendix F.


      Feature Pool Examples

      {macro_compactness_index: "a measure of how closely packed the macros are, potentially affecting
      routing paths and congestion",
      clustered_macro_distance_std: "the standard deviation of distances between clustered groups of
      macros",
      rudy_pin_clustering_coefficient: "a measure of how many rudy pins cluster together relative
      to the total number of rudy pins",
      macro_density_gradient: "the change in macro density across the layout, impacting local conges-
      tion", ...}


                                    Figure 2: Feature Pool Examples


                                                     4
        Fixed            Trainable           Image End
      Parameters        Parameters   *         Token                              Interpretable Features Fusion                   high_density_rudy_ratio
                                                                                                                               rudy_pin_gradient_convergence
                                                         Congestion Score
                                                                                       Weighted                                   macro_compactness_index
                          Congestion Map                            𝑦ො                  Sum                                      rudy_gradient_variability
 Congestion Map          Generation Module     Image Features
                                                                                                                                   macro_density_gradient

                                                                                          FWeights           FScores
                            …        …
                                                                                      Gating Layer                                      Regression Layer


                                                          …                                                   *
                                                                     Controller




                                               Multimodal Large Language Model (MLLM)



                                                                                                              *
                                                                                                          [/IMG]
                                                                    Vision Encoder
  Chip Configuration:
                                                                                                                       Task Description:
  - Design Name: RISCY-a
                                                                                                                       Predict the congestion level of this sample
  - Clock Frequency: 500MHz
                                                                …                     …                  …             from the given images.
  - Power Mesh Setting: 8 …




Figure 3: Overview of our interpretable preference modeling framework. The model leverages
interpretable features identified in Phase 1 as preference signals to guide congestion prediction and
design suggestion generation. A multimodal architecture integrates layout images and task prompts,
predicts feature values, learns objective weights via a gating mechanism, and generates both scalar
congestion scores and spatial congestion maps. This enables transparent and actionable feedback for
physical design refinement.


3.1.3      Automated Feature Engineering

We employ Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) to automate feature transformation by
generating code snippets tailored to the characteristics of input features and target objectives. The
generated code is then executed in a controlled environment, where inputs, outputs, and errors are
systematically handled to ensure robustness. This automation streamlines the feature engineering
process, improving both efficiency and scalability in modeling routing congestion.

3.2     Interpretable Preferences to Design Suggestions

To bridge the gap between predictive modeling and actionable design insights, we develop a method-
ology that directly uses the features discovered in Phase 1 as interpretable preference indicators,
enabling their translation into concrete and actionable design suggestions.

3.2.1      Interpretable Preferences and Model Architecture

Inspired by the ArmoRM framework (Wang et al., 2024), we formulate design evaluation as a multi-
objective task, addressing both scalar congestion prediction and spatial congestion map generation.
Central to our approach is the reuse of the feature pool generated in Phase 1 via genetic instruction
prompting. These features serve as interpretable preference indicators—each representing a physically
meaningful and actionable design attribute such as pin clustering, macro placement density, or region-
based congestion asymmetry.
Our model adopts a multimodal LLM backbone based on MiniCPM (Yao et al., 2024). Design
configuration images are tokenized as vision inputs, while the task descriptions are encoded as text
tokens. We then apply a regression layer trained on the last tokens to predict interpretable feature
values, and a gating layer trained on vision tokens to learn objective weights based on layout context.
The gating layer dynamically assigns importance to each interpretable feature dimension, effectively
scalarizing the multi-objective signal into a preference-aware score. This architecture enables both
granular score decomposition and end-to-end learning across objectives. The model not only predicts


                                                                                  5
congestion values but also generates pixel-level congestion maps, providing actionable, interpretable
guidance to support iterative physical design refinement.
In the congestion map generation stage, a conditional U-Net architecture is employed for the image-
to-image translation task, where the input consists of image-based layout features and the output is
the predicted congestion map. To incorporate the interpretable features as conditional information,
we explore two representation methods: numerical vectors and text-based descriptions. Through the
ablation studies in Appendix D, we find that using interpretable features with gating weights in a
text-based representation achieves better performance, demonstrating their effectiveness in providing
semantic information to guide the generation of congestion maps.

3.2.2    Design Suggestions

Using the interpretable preference signals, we generate targeted design suggestions focused on
improving the most critical objectives. Since the model reasons over features that are both informative
and physically grounded (e.g., pin density imbalance, macro boundary interactions), its suggestions
are inherently actionable. For example, in cases where congestion is identified as a dominant issue, the
model might recommend reducing cluster density in specific regions or modifying routing constraints.
Each suggestion is directly traceable to feature-level insights, ensuring that design decisions are not
only effective but also well-justified.


4     Experiment

Details of the experimental setup and hyperparameters are provided in Appendix E.

4.1     Dataset

The CircuitNet dataset (Jiang et al., 2023; Chai et al., 2023) serves as the foundation for this study. It
is a large-scale, open-source benchmark comprising over 10,000 synthesized chip designs—including
CPUs, GPUs, and AI accelerators—fabricated using the 14nm FinFET process. It provides two
types of features: image-like layout representations and text-based features that extracted from
configuration log. Details on preprocessing and data augmentation are included in Appendix E.

4.2     Baselines

We compare our method against three state-of-the-art congestion prediction models. GPDL (Chai
et al., 2023) is a CNN-based architecture that predicts congestion maps from layout images us-
ing spatial convolutions to model local routing patterns. CircuitFormer (Zou et al., 2023) is a
Transformer-based model operating on point cloud data, learning spatial relationships from raw
layout coordinates. MPGD (Yang et al., 2024) introduces Mini-Pixel Batch Gradient Descent that
targets the most informative regions of the congestion map.

4.3     Evaluation Metrics

Each model is trained to output a pixel-level prediction of congestion, which is then compared
against the ground-truth congestion heatmap. We adopt standard metrics used in prior work to
evaluate congestion prediction quality. These include SSIM for perceptual similarity, NRMSE and
PeakNRMSE for error measurement, and PLCC, SRCC, and KRCC for correlation analysis. A
detailed explanation and formal definitions of each metric are provided in Appendix B.

4.4     Experiment Results

Table 1 shows that our model consistently outperforms baselines in SSIM, NRMSE, and peak error
metrics, validating the benefit of interpretable preference modeling and multi-objective supervision.
Our qualitative results in Figure 4 further show that the predictions from our model more accurately
capture fine-grained congestion boundaries compared to the baselines.


                                                    6
   Table 1: Congestion prediction performance on CircuitNet across pixel-based and correlation-based
   metrics.
                                                                      Peak NRMSE ↓                     Correlation Metrics
Method                             SSIM ↑     NRMSE ↓
                                                        0.5%         1%    2%    5%         avg     PLCC ↑ SRCC ↑ KRCC ↑
GPDL (Chai et al., 2023)           0.773        0.047   0.441       0.323   0.236   0.155   0.289   0.5032     0.5143   0.3787
MPGD (Yang et al., 2024)           0.787        0.046   0.271       0.217   0.171   0.121   0.195      –          –        –
CircuitGNN                           –            –       –           –       –       –       –     0.3287     0.4483   0.3688
CircuitFormer (Zou et al., 2023)     –            –       –           –       –       –       –     0.6374     0.5282   0.3935
Ours                               0.807        0.045   0.263       0.205   0.169   0.118   0.189   0.6452     0.5233   0.3941




       (a) Input Image Features            (b) GPDL                   (c) MLLMA (Ours)               (d) Ground-truth


   Figure 4: Qualitative comparison of congestion prediction heatmaps between the GPDL baseline
   and our proposed multimodal model, MLLMA. Red bounding boxes highlight congestion hotspots
   where MLLMA more accurately captures the spatial patterns and severity of congestion compared to
   the ground truth. Black bounding boxes indicate regions where GPDL fails to localize congestion
   accurately.
   4.5 Ablation Study

   To understand which components contribute most to our model’s effectiveness, we conduct a two-
   phase ablation study.

   Phase 1: Ablation Study on Feature Generation Pipeline This phase evaluates the necessity and
   effectiveness of our proposed Genetic Instruct prompting strategy for MLLMs. We compare it
   against two variants: a crossover-only version that recombines prompt elements and a mutation-only
   version that introduces random prompt variations. Our Genetic Instruct method integrates both
   crossover and mutation with evolutionary selection, and achieves significantly better feature quality
   for downstream congestion prediction. As shown in Table 5a, the Genetic Instruct strategy leads
   to substantial performance gains, demonstrating that careful prompt optimization is crucial when
   leveraging MLLMs for physical design tasks.

   Phase 2: Ablation Study on Interpretable Preference Pipeline This phase investigates which
   components of our interpretable preference modeling pipeline are most critical to performance. We
   ablate four key aspects: the input modalities, the loss functions, the congestion map generation
   modules, and the interpretable preference features used for gating mechanism. Each removal leads
   to varying degrees of performance degradation, highlighting the importance of both structural and
   semantic components in learning meaningful preferences. A subset of the ablation results is sum-
   marized in Table 2, with additional details provided in Appendix D. These findings confirm that
   the learned preference signals are not only interpretable but also integral to model performance.
   Notably, removing structured inputs or disabling the gating mechanism leads to substantial degrada-
   tion, underscoring the critical role of each component in modeling contextual and actionable design
   preferences.

   5      Analysis
   5.1     Feature Attribution Analysis

   Each design feature is associated with a scalar gating value representing its relative importance or pref-
   erence weight. To interpret the sign of these values: These interpretations allow us to understand how
   each feature drives model predictions in different design contexts. We observe that low-congestion
   samples tend to exhibit high values on the macro_rudy_boundary_interaction_index feature,
   as illustrated in Table 3. This trend is consistent across multiple instances, with a negative Pearson
   correlation of −0.72 between this feature and the congestion score.


                                                                7
                                                                                               Table 2: Ablation Studies.
(a) Ablation on feature generation pipeline.                                                                                             (b) Ablation on interpretable features.

  Pipeline Variant
                                zero-riscy-a                                                         zero-riscy-b                         Feature Source Modality                       SSIM ↑        NRMSE ↓
                      PLCC ↑ SRCC ↑ KRCC ↑                                                     PLCC ↑ SRCC ↑ KRCC ↑
                                                                                                                                          Image-Based                                     0.791          0.047
 Crossover-Only                          0.630         0.674        0.492                           0.589       0.686        0.493
 Mutation-Only                           0.353         0.485        0.348                           0.469       0.462        0.314        Log-Based                                       0.764          0.052
 Genetic Instruct                        0.705         0.786        0.595                           0.599       0.591        0.412        Mixed (Image + Log)                             0.789          0.046



          Similarly, features such as rudy_pin_clustering_coefficient and rudy_pin_compaction
          _ratio tend to have high values in high-congestion samples, showing a positive correlation. This
          suggests that pin-related density features are dominant contributors to congestion under high-load
          scenarios.
          To further support interpretability, we conduct a detailed breakdown analysis covering the value
          distribution, gating value, and associated congestion level for every major design feature. This
          comprehensive analysis is included in Appendix C and Figure 7, where we also include additional
          observations and insights derived from these patterns.

                                 Low Congestion High Feature Value                                  High Congestion High Feature Value                              High Congestion High Feature Value
                                         (Pearson r = -0.33)                                                 (Pearson r = 0.43)                                              (Pearson r = 0.44)
                           40                                                                                                                                 7.0
                           35                                                                  7                                                              6.5
                           30                                                                                                                                 6.0
        Congestion Label




                                                                            Congestion Label




                                                                                                                                           Congestion Label
                                                                                               6
                           25                                                                                                                                 5.5
                           20                                                                  5                                                              5.0
                           15                                                                                                                                 4.5
                           10                                                                  4                                                              4.0
                                                                                                                                                              3.5
                            5                                                                  3                                                              3.0
                                   0.2   0.4     0.6   0.8   1.0   1.2                             0.000 0.025 0.050 0.075 0.100 0.125                              0.00 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05
                                macro_rudy_boundary_interaction_index                                  rudy_pin_clustering_coefficient                                rudy_pin_gradient_convergence
          Table 3: Scatter plots showing the relationship between key layout features and congestion labels.
          (Left) macro_rudy_boundary_interaction_index is negatively correlated with congestion (r =
          −0.33), indicating that low-congestion samples tend to exhibit higher values in this macro-level
          feature. (Middle) rudy_pin_clustering_coefficient shows a moderate positive correlation
          with congestion (r = 0.43), suggesting that dense pin clusters contribute to congestion under high-
          load conditions. (Right) rudy_pin_gradient_convergence similarly displays a positive trend
          (r = 0.44), further highlighting the influence of pin-level spatial patterns on congestion outcomes.


          5.2                     Design Suggestion Guidance Leads To Lower Congestion

          To evaluate the practical utility of the model’s interpretable outputs, we conduct a case study that
          demonstrates how applying model-guided feature adjustments can lead to a substantial reduction
          in routing congestion. Specifically, we use the model’s top-attributed features to inform actionable
          design changes and compare outcomes before and after applying these suggestions. Figure 5 presents
          one representative example. The left side shows a high-congestion design sample, along with the top-
          5 features contributing most to the model’s prediction. Based on these attributions, we systematically
          adjust feature values—particularly those with strong positive influence on congestion—toward more
          favorable levels. The adjusted design, shown on the right, exhibits a notable improvement.
          This case highlights the effectiveness of the model’s interpretable reasoning. The ability to trace
          predictions back to key design features enables not just post hoc understanding, but also actionable
          guidance. By following these learned preferences, designers can reduce congestion and iteratively
          improve design quality in practice.

          Feature Attribution and Congestion Change Summary:
          This case illustrates how interpreting the gating values and using them to guide feature adjustment
          can lead to measurable congestion reduction, demonstrating the interpretability and actionability of
          our model’s learned preferences.


                                                                                                                  8
               (a) Before adjustment.                                         (b) After adjustment.

Figure 5: By following the top model-attributed features and adjusting actionable design parameters,
the resulting design exhibits significantly lower predicted and actual congestion.


            Table 4: Top features before/after adjustment and their impact on congestion.
 Feature                                 Before Value   After Value   Attribution (Before)     Congestion Impact
 rudy_pin_gradient_convergence             0.3351          0.1202      0.1551 → 0.0001                High
 rudy_pin_clustering_coefficient           0.5913          0.3606      0.1409 → 0.0002                  ↓
 rudy_pin_compaction_ratio                 0.4273          0.3035      0.1216 → 0.0001                  ↓
 high_density_rudy_pin_ratio               0.3138          0.4867      0.0638 → 0.0003                Mixed
 demarcated_macro_proximity_index          0.3765         -0.0030      0.0539 → 0.0000                  ↓
 macro_rudy_boundary_interaction_index     0.0849         0.0721       0.0321 → 1.2655       High post-adjustment role



We compute the consistency rate across a large number of matched sample pairs. A high agreement
between the sign of the gating value and the direction of the label difference indicates that the learned
preferences are interpretable and aligned with the optimization objective. Additionally, we collaborate
with experienced chip designers and researchers to manually review selected cases, further validating
that the gating values reflect meaningful and actionable design insights.

5.3   Design Suggestion Qualitative Examples

We complement our quantitative and case-based evaluation with a set of qualitative examples that
further illustrate how the model adapts its reasoning to context-specific designs. In Figure 6, we
compare two designs—Design 8277 and Design 8243—exhibiting congestion scores of 40.21 and
20.04, respectively. Despite having similar raw feature values in some cases, the relative importance
assigned to each feature varies dramatically between the two layouts. Design 8277 shows elevated
importance on multiple pin-related density features, suggesting that the layout suffers from excessive
pin compaction and clustering. In contrast, Design 8243 is dominated by a single macro-level
feature—macro_rudy_boundary_interaction_index—highlighting the positive influence of
well-structured macro placement. These examples demonstrate that our model not only identifies
which features matter most, but also how their importance is modulated by spatial context. This
supports our broader goal of providing interpretable, design-aware guidance that generalizes across
different physical design scenarios.




Figure 6: Qualitative interpretation comparing Design 8277 and 8243. Left: Feature importance bar
chart. Right: Root causes and actionable takeaways.



                                                         9
6   Limitation
While our framework shows strong performance, several limitations remain. First, the current evalua-
tion is limited to a RISC-V chip architectures and the CircuitNet dataset. Broader validation across
different architectures and more diverse commercial designs is necessary for practical deployment.
Second, our focus is confined to congestion prediction; extending the approach to other critical
physical design objectives such as power, performance, area (PPA), IR drop, and timing closure
remains an open direction.

7   Conclusion
We propose a multimodal LLM assistant for chip physical design that predicts congestion and
provides interpretable guidance. By combining genetic prompting and preference-based explanation,
our method delivers actionable design suggestions aligned with expert intuition. Experiments show
state-of-the-art results on CircuitNet, and case studies confirm practical utility. Future work will
expand to broader tasks and interactive, real-time, instruction-like design support.

Acknowledgments and Disclosure of Funding

References
J. Blocklove, S. Garg, R. Karri, and H. Pearce. Chip-chat: Challenges and opportunities in con-
   versational hardware design. In 2023 ACM/IEEE 5th Workshop on Machine Learning for CAD
   (MLCAD), pages 1–6. IEEE, 2023.

Z. Chai, Y. Zhao, W. Liu, Y. Lin, R. Wang, and R. Huang. Circuitnet: An open-source dataset for
  machine learning in vlsi cad applications with improved domain-specific evaluation metric and
  learning strategies. IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and
  Systems, 42(12):5034–5047, 2023.

Y. Da Tsai and S. De Lin. Fast online inference for nonlinear contextual bandit based on generative
   adversarial network. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.08867, 2022.

C. Deng, Y.-D. Tsai, G.-T. Liu, Z. Yu, and H. Ren. Scalertl: Scaling llms with reasoning data and
  test-time compute for accurate rtl code generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.05566, 2025.

T. Gong, C. Lyu, S. Zhang, Y. Wang, M. Zheng, Q. Zhao, K. Liu, W. Zhang, P. Luo, and K. Chen.
   Multimodal-gpt: A vision and language model for dialogue with humans. arXiv preprint
   arXiv:2305.04790, 2023.

P.-F. Guo, Y.-H. Chen, Y.-D. Tsai, and S.-D. Lin. Towards optimizing with large language models.
   arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.05204, 2023.

P.-F. Guo, Y.-D. Tsai, and S.-D. Lin. Benchmarking large language model uncertainty for prompt
   optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.10044, 2024.

P.-F. Guo, Y.-D. Tsai, and S.-D. Lin. Uncertainty profiles for llms: Uncertainty source decomposition
   and adaptive model-metric selection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.07309, 2025.

X. Jiang, Y. Zhao, Y. Lin, R. Wang, R. Huang, et al. Circuitnet 2.0: An advanced dataset for promoting
  machine learning innovations in realistic chip design environment. In The Twelfth International
  Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.

F. Liawi, Y.-D. Tsai, G.-L. Lu, and S.-D. Lin. Psgtext: Stroke-guided scene text editing with psp
   module. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.13366, 2023.

M. Liu, T.-D. Ene, R. Kirby, C. Cheng, N. Pinckney, R. Liang, J. Alben, H. Anand, S. Baner-
 jee, I. Bayraktaroglu, et al. Chipnemo: Domain-adapted llms for chip design. arXiv preprint
 arXiv:2311.00176, 2023.


                                                 10
M. Liu, Y.-D. Tsai, W. Zhou, and H. Ren. Craftrtl: High-quality synthetic data generation for verilog
  code models with correct-by-construction non-textual representations and targeted code repair.
  arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12993, 2024.
S. Majumdar, V. Noroozi, S. Narenthiran, A. Ficek, J. Balam, and B. Ginsburg. Genetic instruct:
   Scaling up synthetic generation of coding instructions for large language models. arXiv preprint
   arXiv:2407.21077, 2024.
K. Min, S. Kwon, S.-Y. Lee, D. Kim, S. Park, and S. Kang. Clusternet: Routing congestion
  prediction and optimization using netlist clustering and graph neural networks. In 2023 IEEE/ACM
  International Conference on Computer Aided Design (ICCAD), pages 1–9. IEEE, 2023.
N. Pinckney, C. Deng, C.-T. Ho, Y.-D. Tsai, M. Liu, W. Zhou, B. Khailany, and H. Ren. Comprehen-
  sive verilog design problems: A next-generation benchmark dataset for evaluating large language
  models and agents on rtl design and verification. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.14074, 2025.
T.-H. Tsai, Y.-D. Tsai, and S.-D. Lin. lil’hdoc: an algorithm for good arm identification under small
   threshold gap. In Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 78–89.
   Springer, 2024a.
Y. Tsai, M. Liu, and H. Ren. Rtlfixer: Automatically fixing rtl syntax errors with large language
  models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.16543, 2023a.
Y.-D. Tsai. Generalizing large language model usability across resource-constrained. arXiv preprint
   arXiv:2505.17040, 2025.
Y.-D. Tsai and S.-D. Lin. Handling concept drift in non-stationary bandit through predicting future
  rewards. In Z. Wang and C. W. Tan, editors, Trends and Applications in Knowledge Discovery and
  Data Mining, pages 161–173, Singapore, 2024. Springer Nature Singapore. ISBN 978-981-97-
  2650-9.
Y.-D. Tsai, C. Chen, and S.-D. Lin. Toward an effective black-box adversarial attack on functional
  javascript malware against commercial anti-virus. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM International
  Conference on Information & Knowledge Management, pages 4165–4172, 2021.
Y.-D. Tsai, T.-H. Tsai, and S.-D. Lin. Differential good arm identification. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2303.07154, 2023b.
Y.-D. Tsai, Y.-C. Tsai, B.-W. Huang, C.-P. Yang, and S.-D. Lin. Automl-gpt: Large language model
  for automl. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.01125, 2023c.
Y.-D. Tsai, C. Liow, Y. S. Siang, and S.-D. Lin. Toward more generalized malicious url detection
  models. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 38, pages
  21628–21636, 2024b.
Y.-D. Tsai, M. Liu, and H. Ren. Code less, align more: Efficient llm fine-tuning for code generation
  with data pruning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.05040, 2024c.
Y.-D. Tsai, T.-Y. Yen, P.-F. Guo, Z.-Y. Li, and S.-D. Lin. Text-centric alignment for multi-modality
  learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.08086, 2024d.
Y.-D. Tsai, T.-Y. Yen, K.-T. Liao, and S.-D. Lin. Enhance modality robustness in text-centric
  multimodal alignment with adversarial prompting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.09798, 2024e.
H. Wang, W. Xiong, T. Xie, H. Zhao, and T. Zhang. Interpretable preferences via multi-objective
  reward modeling and mixture-of-experts. In Findings of the Association for Computational
  Linguistics: EMNLP 2024, pages 10582–10592, 2024.
Y.-A. Wu, Y.-D. Tsai, and S.-D. Lin. Linearapt: An adaptive algorithm for the fixed-budget thresh-
  olding linear bandit problem. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.06230, 2024.
H. Yang, A. Agnesina, and H. Ren. Optimizing predictive ai in physical design flows with mini
  pixel batch gradient descent. In Proceedings of the 2024 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on
  Machine Learning for CAD, pages 1–7, 2024.


                                                 11
Z. Yang, L. Li, J. Wang, K. Lin, E. Azarnasab, F. Ahmed, Z. Liu, C. Liu, M. Zeng, and L. Wang. Mm-
   react: Prompting chatgpt for multimodal reasoning and action. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.11381,
   2023.
Y. Yao, T. Yu, A. Zhang, C. Wang, J. Cui, H. Zhu, T. Cai, H. Li, W. Zhao, Z. He, et al. Minicpm-v: A
   gpt-4v level mllm on your phone. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.01800, 2024.
T.-Y. Yen, Y.-D. Tsai, K.-T. Liao, and S.-D. Lin. Enhance the robustness of text-centric multimodal
   alignments. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.05036, 2024.
M. Zhu, Y. Zhu, X. Liu, N. Liu, Z. Xu, C. Shen, Y. Peng, Z. Ou, F. Feng, and J. Tang. Mipha:
 A comprehensive overhaul of multimodal assistant with small language models. arXiv preprint
 arXiv:2403.06199, 2024.
J. Zou, X. Wang, J. Guo, W. Liu, Q. Zhang, and C. Huang. Circuit as set of points. In Thirty-seventh
   Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.




                                                12
A    Automated Feature Generation and Feature Engineering Algorithm

Algorithm 1 Automated Feature Generation and Feature Engineering
Input: N : Number of automated iterations
        k: Maximum size of feature pool
        Finit : Initial set of hand-crafted features
        D: Raw images of training data
        L: Congestion levels of training data
        Is : Sample images for the inputs of MLLMs
        Pm : Probability of selecting mutation operation
        Pop : Probability distribution over the operations {Mutation: Pm , Cross-Over: 1 − Pm }
Output: Ftotal : Final feature pool, Etotal : Final feature extraction codes
 1: Initialize Fpool ← Finit ;
 2: Initialize Ecode ← CoderM LLM (Is , Fpool );
 3: for r ← 1 to N do
 4:     Initialize T ← {L};
 5:     for each feature extractor ϵi in Ecode do
 6:          T ← T ∪ ϵi (D);
 7:     end for
 8:     R ← Train a Random Forest Regressor with tabular features T ;
 9:     f ← Return the feature importance function in trained Random Forest Regressor R;
10:     Fpool , Ecode ← F eatureSelector(Fpool , Ecode , f, min(k, len(Fpool )));
11:     Sop ← Choose an operation from Pop ;
12:     if Sop = Mutation then
13:          M ← RankSensitveF ormula(Fpool , f );
14:          Fparents ← Select parent features ⊂ Fpool from mutation probabilities M ;
15:          Fnew ← M utatorM LLM (Is , Fparents );
16:     else
17:          Fnew ← CrossoverM LLM (Is , Fpool );
18:     end if
19:     Fnew ← DeduplicatorM LLM (Is , Fpool , Fnew );
20:     Enew ← CoderM LLM (Is , Fnew );
21:     Fpool ← Fpool ∪ Fnew ;
22:     Ecode ← Ecode ∪ Enew ;
23: end for
24: Ftotal , Etotal ← Fpool , Ecode ;




                                                13
B    Evaluation Metric Definition
Definition 1 (SSIM). The Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM) evaluates the perceptual
similarity between two images based on luminance, contrast, and structural information. It is defined
as:
                                           (2µx µy + c1 )(σxy + c2 )
                          SSIM(x, y) = 2                                  ,
                                        (µx + µ2y + c1 )(σx2 + σy2 + c2 )
where µ denotes the mean, σ 2 the variance, and σxy the covariance between prediction x and ground
truth y. Constants c1 and c2 stabilize the denominator.




Definition 2 (MSE, NRMSE, PeakNRMSE). The Mean Squared Error (MSE) is defined as:
                                                      n
                                                 1X
                                  MSE(x, y) =          (xi − yi )2 .
                                                 n i=1

The Normalized Root Mean Square Error (NRMSE) scales the RMSE by the value range of the
ground truth:
                                                    1         p
                        NRMSE(x, y) =                           MSE(x, y).
                                          max(y) − min(y)
The PeakNRMSE evaluates NRMSE restricted to the top-k largest entries of both x and y, emphasiz-
ing high-congestion regions that are most critical in physical design.




Definition 3 (Correlation-Based Metrics: PLCC, SRCC, KRCC). These metrics evaluate statistical
and rank-order correlation between prediction x and ground truth y:

      • PLCC (Pearson Linear Correlation Coefficient) measures linear correlation:
                                                          Cov(x, y)
                                         PLCC(x, y) =               ,
                                                           σx σy
         where Cov(x, y) is the covariance and σ is the standard deviation.
      • SRCC (Spearman Rank-Order Correlation Coefficient) computes PLCC on the rank-
        transformed values of x and y, capturing monotonic relationships.
      • KRCC (Kendall Rank Correlation Coefficient) compares the number of concordant and
        discordant pairs:
                                                   nc − nd
                                    KRCC(x, y) =      n
                                                        ,
                                                               2
                                                                                         n
                                                                                             
         where nc and nd are the counts of concordant and discordant pairs among all     2       possible
         pairs.




                                                 14
C    Feature Attribution Breakdown Across All Features
To further examine the interpretability of the learned gating values, we analyze all 25 features used
by the model. Figure 8 presents a comprehensive visualization, where each subplot corresponds to
one feature.
For each subplot:

           • The x-axis denotes the raw feature value.
           • The y-axis shows the corresponding gating weight assigned by the model.
           • Each point is colored by its associated congestion score, with darker colors indicating higher
             congestion.
           • The left panel shows results from model predictions, and the right panel shows alignment
             with ground-truth labels.

Observation 1: Prediction-Label Alignment. Across most features, the gating weights show
strong alignment between predicted and true congestion labels. This validates that the model is not
only fitting the training objective, but that the learned preferences generalize to meaningful physical
properties in actual designs.

Observation 2: Unique Negative Attribution. Among all 25 features, only one —
macro_rudy_boundary_interaction_index — consistently receives a negative gating weight.
This aligns with earlier findings in Section 5.1, where this feature ranked highly (inversely) corre-
lated with congestion. The model correctly assigns it a down-weighted preference, consistent with
human-understandable design heuristics.

Observation 3: Gating Weights Capture Context Beyond Feature Values. Notably, the spread
of gating weights is often broader than that of feature values. In some features, the same value
results in different gating weights across samples. This suggests that the model modulates importance
dynamically based on context — likely derived from the input image, configuration tokens, or
pretraining of the MLLM backbone. This further supports the idea that gating weights encode richer,
more contextualized preference signals than raw features alone.

                                                                     Preference Feature Importance
                    0.6

                    0.5

                    0.4
     Gating Value




                    0.3

                    0.2

                    0.1

                    0.0
                                     io
                          gth




                                                ce


                                                           n




                                                                                        o
                                                                  n

                                                                           dy




                                                                                                 tio


                                                                                                          dy


                                                                                                                     n


                                                                                                                            y

                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                           rud
                                                                                      ati
                                                       _pi




                                                                                                                   _pi
                                                                    i
                                   rat




                                                                y_p
                                             an




                                                                           _ru




                                                                                                       _ru
                                                                                               _ra
                     en




                                                                                        _r
                                                     dy




                                                                                                                 dy


                                                                                                                           R_
                                   n_


                                              t




                                                               rud


                                                                        std




                                                                                                       an
                                           dis




                                                                                     dy


                                                                                                ea
             e_l




                                                     _ru




                                                                                                               _ru
                               _pi




                                                                                                                         PA
                                                                                             _ar


                                                                                                     me
                                                                                 _ru
                                          or_
           dg




                                                             R_
                                                  std




                                                                                                             an
                            dy




                                                           PA




                                                                                         cro
         e




                                                                                  y
                                        hb




                                                                                                            me
                              u




                                                                              sit
     ro_

                          y_r

                                     eig




                                                                                       ma
                                                                            en
     ac

                      sit


                                      n




                                                                         h_d
  _m




                                  ro_
                en
an




                                                                        hig
             h_d


                                ac
me




                            _m
       hig

                           an
                          me




Figure 7: Bar plot showing the relative importance based on gating values from the preference
features used for congestion prediction. The most influential feature is mean_macro_edge_length,
significantly outweighing others. This suggests that macro-level spatial layout characteristics
play a dominant role in determining congestion levels, followed by pin-density features such as
high_density_rudy_pin_ratio and mean_macro_neighbor_distance.




                                                                              15
                 (a) Gating values vs. feature values, colored by predicted congestion.




                (b) Gating values vs. feature values, colored by ground-truth congestion.
Figure 8: Feature attribution breakdown across all 25 features. Each point represents a sample,
colored by congestion score.


                                                   16
D       Detailed Ablation Study

                                                         Table 5: Ablation Studies.
(a) Ablation on feature generation pipeline methods.                                 (b) Ablation on interpretable features.
Pipeline Variant
                   PLCC ↑
                            zero-riscy-a
                              SRCC ↑ KRCC ↑    PLCC ↑
                                                        zero-riscy-b
                                                          SRCC ↑ KRCC ↑        Feature Source Modality        SSIM ↑   NRMSE ↓
Crossover-Only      0.630     0.674   0.492     0.589     0.686   0.493
Mutation-Only       0.353     0.485   0.348     0.469     0.462   0.314        Image-Based                    0.791        0.047
Genetic Instruct    0.705     0.786   0.595     0.599     0.591   0.412        Log-Based                      0.764        0.052
                                                                               Mixed (Image + Log)            0.789        0.046

               (c) Ablation on conditional states.                                       (d) Ablation on loss functions.

 Conditional Modality                         SSIM ↑      NRMSE ↓              Loss Variant                   SSIM ↑   NRMSE ↓
 Features and Gating weights                                                   U-Net with text conditioning
 - numerical format (MLP)                     0.787          0.047             - MSE                           0.791       0.047
 - text format (T5 Encoder)                   0.791          0.047             - MPGD                          0.789       0.047
                                                                               - MS-SSIM + L1                  0.762       0.079

                                       (e) Ablation on congestion map generation modules.

                                         Input Variant                          SSIM ↑     NRMSE ↓
                                         U-Net                                   0.791        0.047
                                         U-Net + CNN Highway                     0.792        0.048
                                         U-Net + MLLM (trainable)                0.807        0.045



E      Experiment Setup
E.1      Training Setup

All models are trained using the AdamW optimizer with mixed-precision (FP16) training enabled.
Most experiments are conducted on 32 NVIDIA A100 GPUs, while some smaller-scale experiments
and ablations are run on NVIDIA RTX A6000 GPUs. We train for 50 epochs with early stopping
based on validation loss. The learning rate follows a linear warm-up over the first 500 steps and a
cosine decay schedule thereafter. The dataset is split into 80% training, 10% validation, and 10%
test. All reported results are based on the held-out test set. To ensure robustness, each experiment is
repeated with three random seeds.

E.2      Hyperparameters

We set the initial learning rate to 1e-4 with weight decay of 0.01. The optimizer uses β1 = 0.9 and
β2 = 0.999. The batch size is set to 4. We adopt MiniCPM-V-2_6 (Yao et al., 2024) as the backbone
of our MLLM, where the visual encoder follows a SigLIP-like architecture. For the regression
layer encoder, we use a linear layer appended to the backbone; for the gating layer, we use a ReLU
MLP of 3 hidden layers with 1024 hidden units. The conditioning text descriptions for U-Net are
encoded with a frozen T5 encoder model unless otherwise stated. Dropout of 0.1 is applied to all
modality-specific encoders.

E.3      Dataset Preprocessing

We preprocess the CircuitNet dataset to construct aligned multimodal representations, including:
(1) layout-based raster images (e.g., Macro Region, RUDY, and RUDY pin maps), (2) normalized
tabular features extracted through code-driven analysis, and (3) optional configuration text describing
design modules and target specifications. We partition the dataset into 80% training, 10% validation,
and 10% test. All results reported are on held-out test samples. Additional augmentations include
rotational invariance for layout images and controlled masking of tabular features to assess robustness.




                                                                          17
F   Complete List of Generated Feature Pool and Feature Engineering Details

    Image-based Feature Pool (Appendix)

     Feature Name                                Description

     rudy_gradient_variability                   the variation in gradient changes across the rudy map indicating potential areas of abrupt routing
                                                 demand shifts
     clustered_macro_distance_std                the standard deviation of distances between clustered groups of macros
     rudy_pin_clustering_coefficient             a measure of how many rudy pins cluster together relative to the total number of rudy pins
     macro_density_gradient                      the change in macro density across the layout, impacting local congestion
     macro_aspect_ratio_variance                 the variance in aspect ratios of macros, indicating potential alignment and spacing issues that may
                                                 impact congestion
     macro_compactness_index                     a measure of how closely packed the macros are, potentially affecting routing paths and congestion
     rudy_pin_compaction_ratio                   the ratio of compacted rudy pin clusters to the total number of rudy pins, indicating areas with high
                                                 potential routing conflicts
     macro_variability_coefficient               a measure of the consistency in macro sizes and shapes relative to each other, potentially affecting
                                                 congestion balance
     macro_cluster_density_contrast              the contrast in density between clustered groups of macros and their surrounding layout areas,
                                                 indicating potential localized congestion pressure
     rudy_pin_distribution_kurtosis              a measure of the peakedness or flatness in the distribution of rudy pins across the layout
     localized_rudy_variability_coefficient      variation in RUDY intensity within localized regions, indicating potential micro-level congestion
                                                 fluctuations
     macro_distribution_clarity_index            a measure of how distinct macro distributions are across the layout, indicating clarity in separation
     rudy_direction_consistency_index            a measure of the uniformity in the directional flow of RUDY intensity
     rudy_pin_area_masking_index                 the ratio of the area masked by rudy pin regions relative to the total layout
     rudy_pin_gradient_convergence               a measure of how gradients in the rudy pin map converge into specific regions
     rudy_deviation_effect_index                 the deviation of RUDY intensities from the mean, indicating areas of abnormal routing demand
     demarcated_macro_proximity_index            proximity of macros to predefined boundary regions, potentially affecting congestion near edges
     macro_surface_irregularity_index            the irregularity in macro surface shapes, which can impact routing paths
     macro_rudy_boundary_interaction_index       interaction between macros and high RUDY regions, indicating potential congestion hotspots
     pin_density_peak_contrast                   the contrast between peak pin density regions and their surroundings
     rudy_pin_density_flux_index                 the rate of change in rudy pin density across the layout
     high_density_rudy_ratio                     the ratio of areas with high RUDY intensity to the total layout area
     high_density_rudy_pin_ratio                 the ratio of areas with high RUDY pin intensity to the total layout area




Figure 9: Complete list of generated features used in our modeling pipeline. These capture spatial,
statistical, and gradient-based properties derived from chip layout images.


    Configuration and Log-derived Feature Pool

     Feature Name                                Description
     design_name                        Design identifier (e.g., RISCY-a), useful for tracking design variants.
     number_of_macros                   Total number of macros in the design, affecting placement complexity.
     clock_frequency                    Operating frequency (e.g., 200MHz), indicating timing pressure that may affect place-
                                        ment/routing.
     utilization                        Target utilization (e.g., 70%), influencing available routing resources.
     macro_placement                    Macro placement strategy or group count, impacting layout structure.
     power_mesh_setting                 Power mesh granularity (e.g., 8), which may influence routing congestion and IR-drop
                                        safety margins.
     filler_insertion                   Stage of filler insertion (e.g., after placement), potentially affecting congestion distri-
                                        bution.
     initial_placement_efficiency       Efficiency of macro and cell placement before routing begins.
     instance_blockages_count           Number of instance blockages, reflecting routing resource obstruction from macro/cell
                                        placement.
     hard_to_access_pins_ratio          Proportion of pins difficult to route due to placement or geometry constraints.
     pin_density_variance_map           Variance in pin density across layout regions, highlighting routing hotspots.
     multi_layer_pin_access_variability Variation in pin accessibility across metal layers, indicating routing complexity.
     non_default_routing_rule_usage     Frequency of non-default routing rules (if known from constraints or synthesis config).
     crosstalk_sensitive_zones          Areas near critical nets where routing rules must prevent signal interference.



Figure 10: Complete list of configuration- and log-derived features used in our modeling pipeline.
These include routing and congestion-related metrics obtained from the global placement and routing
stages, as well as features generated by our own pipeline. They collectively capture layout-level
difficulty indicators relevant for congestion prediction.




                                                                   18
   Feature Extraction Code Example: Macro Density Gradient

   def m a c r o _ d e n s i t y _ g r a d i e n t ( images ) :
       tiles_size = 2.25
       macro_image = images [0]
       rudy_image = images [1]
       rud y_pin_ image = images [2]

         image_height , image_width = macro_image . shape
         t o t a l _ i m a g e _ a r e a = image_width * image_height

         # Convert macro image to binary [0 , 255]
         macro_image = np . uint8 ( macro_image * 255)
         _ , binary_image = cv2 . threshold ( macro_image , 127 , 255 , cv2 . THRESH_BINARY )

         # Find contours to get macro regions
         contours , _ = cv2 . findContours ( binary_image , cv2 . RETR_EXTERNAL , cv2 .
              CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE )

         # Calculate macro density per region
         macro_density = np . zeros (( image_height , image_width ) )
         for contour in contours :
             mask = np . zeros_like ( binary_image )
             cv2 . drawContours ( mask , [ contour ] , -1 , 255 , thickness = cv2 . FILLED )
             macro_density += mask

         # Gradient of the macro density
         gradient_x = cv2 . Sobel ( macro_density , cv2 . CV_64F , 1 , 0 , ksize =5)
         gradient_y = cv2 . Sobel ( macro_density , cv2 . CV_64F , 0 , 1 , ksize =5)

         # Calculate the magnitude of gradients
         g r a d i e n t _ m a g n i t u d e = cv2 . magnitude ( gradient_x , gradient_y )

         # Calculate the average gradient magnitude in micrometers
         m a c r o _ d e n s i t y _ g r a d i e n t _ u m = np . sum ( g r a d i e n t _ m a g n i t u d e ) / ( image_height *
                  image_width )
         m a c r o _ d e n s i t y _ g r a d i e n t _ u m *= tiles_size # Convert to micrometers

         return { " m a c r o _ d e n s i t y _ g r a d i e n t " : m a c r o _ d e n s i t y _ g r a d i e n t _ u m }




Figure 11: Python implementation of the macro_density_gradient feature extractor. This func-
tion computes the average gradient magnitude of macro cell density across a chip layout image,
offering a scalar representation of spatial density variation in micrometers.




   Feature Extraction Code Example: High Density Rudy Ratio

   def h i g h _ d e n s i t y _ r u d y _ r a t i o ( images ) :
       image = images [1]
       total_area = image . shape [0] * image . shape [1]
       mean_rudy = np . mean ( image )
       h i g h _ d e n s i t y _ r u d y _ r a t i o = ( image > mean_rudy ) . sum () /                       total_area

         return {
             " h i g h _ d e n s i t y _ r u d y _ r a t i o " : high_density_rudy_ratio ,
         }




Figure 12: Python implementation of the high_density_rudy_ratio feature extractor. This
function computes the average gradient magnitude of macro cell density across a chip layout image,
offering a scalar representation of spatial density variation in micrometers.




                                                                          19
