                                                     CktFormalizer: Autoformalization of Natural
                                                        Language into Circuit Representations


                                                                    Jing Xiong∗, Qi Han, Chenchen Ding, He Xiao,
                                                                 Zunhai Su, Xiachong Feng, Chaofan Tao, Ngai Wong
                                                                                The University of Hong Kong
arXiv:2605.07782v3 [cs.CL] 12 May 2026




                                                                                           Abstract
                                                     LLMs can generate hardware descriptions from natural language specifications,
                                                     but the resulting Verilog often contains width mismatches, combinational loops,
                                                     and incomplete case logic that pass syntax checks yet fail in synthesis or silicon.
                                                     We present C KT F ORMALIZER, a framework that redirects LLM-driven hardware
                                                     generation through a dependently-typed HDL embedded in Lean 4. Lean serves
                                                     three roles: (i) type checker:dependent types encode bit-width constraints, case
                                                     coverage, and acyclicity, turning hardware defects into compile-time errors that
                                                     guide iterative repair; (ii) correctness firewall:compiled designs are structurally
                                                     free of defects that cause silent backend failures (the baseline loses 20% of correct
                                                     designs during synthesis and routing; C KT F ORMALIZER preserves all of them);
                                                     (iii) proof assistant:the agent constructs automated theorem equivalence proofs over
                                                     arbitrary input sequences and parameterized widths, beyond the reach of bounded
                                                     SMT-based checking. On VerilogEval (156 problems), RTLLM (50 problems),
                                                     and ResBench (56 problems), C KT F ORMALIZER achieves simulation pass rates
                                                     competitive with direct Verilog generation while delivering substantially higher
                                                     backend realizability: 95–100% of compiled designs complete the full synthesis,
                                                     place-and-route, DRC, and LVS flow. A closed-loop PPA optimization stage yields
                                                     up to 35% area reduction and 30% power reduction through validated architecture
                                                     exploration, with automated theorem proofs ensuring that each optimized variant
                                                     remains functionally equivalent to its formal specification.


                                         1     Introduction
                                         Hardware design remains one of the most error-prone and labor-intensive disciplines in computing.
                                         A single bit-width mismatch or missing case in a finite state machine can propagate silently through
                                         synthesis, only to surface weeks later as a silicon bug costing millions of dollars to fix. Despite
                                         decades of progress in electronic design automation (EDA), the dominant hardware description
                                         language (HDL), Verilog and VHDL, still lack the static guarantees taken for granted in software:
                                         dependent types, exhaustive pattern matching, and machine-checked proofs of correctness.
                                         Two largely independent research threads have sought to address this gap. On one hand, type-safe
                                         HDL such as Chisel [Bachrach et al., 2012], Bluespec [Nikhil, 2004], and Cλash [Baaij et al., 2010]
                                         embed hardware descriptions in host languages with richer type systems, eliminating entire classes of
                                         bugs at compile time. On the other hand, large language models (LLMs) demonstrate remarkable
                                         ability to generate Verilog from natural language specifications [Thakur et al., 2023, Liu et al.,
                                         2023], promising to democratize hardware design by lowering the barrier to entry. Yet these two
                                         threads remain disconnected: LLM-generated Verilog inherits the pitfalls of the target language
                                             ∗ Corresponding   author: junexiong@connect.hku.hk




                                         Preprint.
and the ambiguity of natural language, while type-safe HDLs still require expert knowledge to use
effectively. Table 1 summarizes the key differences. We argue that these threads are complementary:
an HDL with dependent types provides precise, formal constraints that enable an LLM agent to reason
about functional equivalence and make steady progress, particularly in settings where SMT-based
(Satisfiability Modulo Theories) verification often struggles to converge.
In this paper, we present C KT F ORMAL - Table 1: Comparison of the traditional EDA flow and
IZER, a framework that unifies LLM-driven the C KT F ORMALIZER flow.
code generation with formal verification
by targeting a dependently-typed hardware       Capability                  Trad.       Ours
domain-specific language (DSL) embedded         Target language             Verilog Lean DSL
in Lean [Moura and Ullrich, 2021]. Given        Compile-time width safety     ✗           ✓
a natural language specification, an LLM        Comb. loop prevention         ✗           ✓
agent generates hardware whose bit-width        Exhaustive case coverage      ✗           ✓
safety, loop freedom, and case exhaustive-      Feedback latency            Hours        ms
ness are enforced at compile time. The          Error diagnostics         EDA logs Type errors
compiled design is automatically extracted      Formal equiv. proofs          ✗           ✓
to synthesizable SystemVerilog, simulated       Auto Verilog extraction      N/A          ✓
against reference testbenches, and physi-
cally synthesized via OpenROAD [Ajayi et al., 2019], an open-source digital layout implementation
toolchain, with the SkyWater 130nm PDK [Google and SkyWater Technology, 2020]. A closed-
loop PPA optimization stage feeds synthesis metrics back to the agent for iterative refinement with
equivalence guarantees.
The key insight behind C KT F ORMALIZER is that the compiler is the verifier. Rather than generating
Verilog and hoping it is correct, the agent receives immediate, actionable feedback from Lean’s
type system at every iteration, feedback that is far more informative than the cryptic warnings of
a Verilog linter. This transforms the LLM’s generate-and-test loop from a stochastic search over
syntactically valid programs into a type-guided refinement process that systematically narrows the
space of candidate designs. Our contributions are as follows:
• We introduce C KT F ORMALIZER, the first framework combining LLM-driven hardware gener-
  ation with a Lean-embedded HDL, providing an end-to-end pipeline from natural language to
  synthesizable silicon with closed-loop PPA optimization.
• We demonstrate that targeting a type-safe HDL substantially improves LLM success rates compared
  to direct Verilog generation, as compile-time type errors provide structured feedback that guides
  the agent toward correct designs. The framework further scales to industry-relevant IP such as
  multi-channel handshake bus interfaces (Appendix A.9).
• We show that the framework can produce formally verified hardware, including machine-checked
  equivalence proofs between specifications and optimized implementations, bridging the gap be-
  tween LLM-generated code and provably correct hardware.

2   Related Work
Hardware Abstractions and Verification. The limitations of Verilog and VHDL motivate a rich
line of work on higher-level HDLs and formal methods. Tools such as Chisel [Bachrach et al., 2012],
Bluespec [Nikhil, 2004], and Cλash [Baaij et al., 2010] raise the level of abstraction and eliminate
classes of bugs by construction, while High-Level Synthesis (HLS) [Cong et al., 2011, Canis et al.,
2011] compiles C/C++ to RTL at the cost of micro-architectural control. However, these tools often
still rely on post-hoc formal verification via model checking [Clarke et al., 2018, Biere, 2009] or
equivalence checking [Brayton and Mishchenko, 2010] after the RTL is generated. An alternative
approach embeds hardware directly in proof assistants to enable verification by construction, such
as Kami [Choi et al., 2017] and Silver Oak [Project Oak, 2022] in Coq, or ACL2 for industrial
verification [Hunt et al., 2017]. C KT F ORMALIZER builds on this tradition by targeting Lean [Moura
and Ullrich, 2021], leveraging its dependent types and metaprogramming to provide both seamless
SystemVerilog extraction and rich compile-time feedback that uniquely benefits LLM agents.
LLMs for Hardware Design. The application of LLMs to hardware design has gained momentum.
Early work explored generating Verilog from English descriptions [Pearce et al., 2020], and recent
general-purpose code models [Chen et al., 2021, Rozière et al., 2023, Lozhkov et al., 2024] and
fine-tuned models such as VeriGen [Thakur et al., 2024] have been evaluated on Verilog tasks using


                                                 2
    -- Example 1: 8-bit counter (sequential circuit)
    def counter {dom : DomainConfig} : Signal dom (BitVec 8) :=
      Signal.circuit do
        let count <- Signal.reg 0#8
        count <~ count + 1#8
        return count
    -- Example 2: Bit-width    mismatch caught at compile time
    def bad_add (a : Signal    dom (BitVec 8))
                (b : Signal    dom (BitVec 16)) : Signal dom (BitVec 8) :=
      a + b -- ERROR: type     mismatch (BitVec 8 vs BitVec 16)
    -- Example 3: Combinational loops impossible by construction
    -- Self-referencing signals are rejected (no implicit feedback path):
    def bad_loop (x : Signal dom (BitVec 8)) : Signal dom (BitVec 8) :=
      let y := x + y -- ERROR: unknown identifier ’y’
      y
    -- Example 4: Exhaustive pattern matching prevents unintended latches
    def mux3 (sel : Signal dom (BitVec 2))
             (a b c : Signal dom (BitVec 8)) : Signal dom (BitVec 8) :=
      Signal.match sel fun
        | 0b00 => a
        | 0b01 => b
        | 0b10 => c
        | _    => 0#8 -- must cover all cases; omitting causes compile error

Figure 1: Lean HDL examples illustrating key structural guarantees. (1) An 8-bit counter:
Signal.circuit desugars into Signal.loop and Signal.register, compiling to always_ff.
(2) Bit-width mismatches are compile-time type errors. (3) Combinational loops are impossible by
construction; self-referencing signals are rejected as unknown identifiers since feedback requires
explicit Signal.reg. (4) Exhaustive pattern matching prevents unintended latches; omitting any
case is a compile error, unlike Verilog’s always blocks.

benchmarks such as VerilogEval [Liu et al., 2023] and RTLLM [Lu et al., 2024]. Conversational
frameworks such as Chip-Chat [Blocklove et al., 2023] and ChipGPT [Chang et al., 2024] further
explore multi-step hardware design flows. A common limitation across this body of work is that
LLMs generate Verilog directly, inheriting all of its pitfalls: the generated code may contain width
mismatches, unintended latches, or combinational loops that pass syntax checks but fail in synthesis
or silicon. Our work addresses this by redirecting the LLM to target a type-safe HDL, where the
compiler catches these errors immediately and provides structured feedback for iterative correction.

LLM Agents and Automated Theorem Proving. Beyond single-pass generation, tool-augmented
LLM agents show strong results in software engineering (e.g., ReAct [Yao et al., 2023], SWE-
agent [Yang et al., 2024a]). These agents can resolve real-world issues by reading code, editing files,
and running tests in a feedback loop [Jimenez et al., 2023]. Concurrently, LLMs are applied to formal
theorem proving, with systems such as GPT-f [Polu and Sutskever, 2020] and LeanDojo [Yang et al.,
2024b] demonstrating the ability to generate proof steps in Lean. Our framework synthesizes these
advances: the coding agent follows an iterative generate-compile-repair paradigm, but operates in
the hardware domain where the Lean provides substantially richer feedback than typical software
build errors. Furthermore, because C KT F ORMALIZER operates inside Lean, the agent can generate
not only correct-by-construction hardware implementations but also formal equivalence proofs that
guarantee functional equivalence between specifications and optimized implementations, bridging
agentic code generation and machine-checked verification.

3     Background: Hardware in Lean
Lean HDL is a domain-specific language embedded in Lean that describes hardware using Signal
combinators. A signal Signal dom α represents a synchronous stream of values of type α un-
der clock domain dom. Semantically, a signal is a function from discrete time steps to values:
Signal dom α ≜ N → α. This denotational semantics enables both cycle-accurate simulation
(by evaluating the function) and formal reasoning (by proving properties over the function). The
embedding in Lean provides four properties that make it uniquely suited as an LLM compilation
target for chip architecture.


                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                           SkyWater 130nm PDK
                                              Input Specifications                                                         Docker Container Environment                            Standard Cells, Liberty (.lib), CDL, SPEF
                NL Spec (S)                     Benchmark lib                      Ref Verilog
              High-level intent                10 Verified Designs           + Testbench Model                           Lean 4                  Icarus Verilog            Yosys                 OpenROAD                            KLayout
                                                                                                                    Compile & Extract SV          Lint & Simulation   Synthesis & Formal        P&R, Multi-corner STA              Physical Signoff


                                                     Input                                                                     API Call / Tool Execution

                                                                                                           Formal Verification                                                             Synthesize &Physical Design
                                     LLM Coding Agent
       Final Output                    (Claude 3 / GPT-4)                                                                                                                         Place & Route                           Logic Synthesis
                                                                                Spec Function 𝒇𝒇𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔
                                                                                Pure behavioral intent                                                                         OpenROAD Pipeline                        Yosys (Target: sky130)
    Lean 4 source                 System Prompt: Sparkle HDL                                                           Formal Equivalence Proof                                Power, WNS, Routing                     Area, Cell Count metrics
    Equivalence proof              API, design patterns…                                                                    theorem: impl = spec
                                   Tool Call                                                                                                                                                                                          Sim Pass
    System Verilog                Compile-Fix Loop:
                                                                                                                         Machine-checked in Lean 4
    GDSII layout                             Lean
                                                                               Lean Compilation 𝒇𝒇𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊               100% State Space Coverage                                  Synthesize                            Functional Sim
                                                                               BitVec, No comb loops                                                                           Lean → IR → SysVerilog                   iverilog: Design vs TB
    PPA metrics                       Edit
                                                       Lake
                                                       Build                                                                       Verified SV
                                              Errors


                 Best Output
                                                                 Agent Reuse                                                   PPA Optimization Loop

                                                               Trace Global Best                 Rollback on failure                 Re-prove 𝒇𝒇𝒐𝒐𝒐𝒐𝒐𝒐 = 𝒇𝒇𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔          Agent Arch Mod 𝒇𝒇𝒐𝒐𝒐𝒐𝒐𝒐
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PPA Feedback




Figure 2: Overview of the C KT F ORMALIZER pipeline. Given a natural language specification S
and an optional reference Verilog implementation Vref , a coding agent A translates S into Lean code
L using few-shot examples and iterative error correction. The Lean compiler type-checks L and
extracts synthesizable SystemVerilog V via the #synthesizeVerilog metaprogram. V is simulated
against reference testbenches, then synthesized and placed-and-routed using OpenROAD with the
SkyWater 130nm PDK, yielding PPA (Power, Performance, Area) metrics. The agent receives PPA
feedback and iteratively optimizes the architecture while preserving functional correctness.


Type Safety and Structural Guarantees. Lean’s dependent type system encodes bit widths at the
type level via BitVec N , turning width mismatches into compile-time errors rather than silent bugs.
Combinational logic forms a DAG enforced by the Signal monad; state feedback requires explicit
register primitives (Signal.register, Signal.loop), making combinational loops impossible
by construction. Lean’s exhaustive pattern matching further prevents unintended latches. Figure 1
illustrates these guarantees. For sequential circuits, C KT F ORMALIZER provides an imperative
Signal.circuit macro that desugars into Signal.loop and Signal.register calls, enabling
natural descriptions of pipelines and state machines. More complex architectures (FSMs, multi-stage
pipelines, memory-mapped controllers) compose from the same primitives.
Memory, Datapath Primitives, and Formal Verification. C KT F ORMALIZER provides synthesiz-
able memory primitives (synchronous and combinational read, pre-initialized ROM/RAM) that map
to SRAM/BRAM, with address and data widths statically checked via the type signature. Combined
with arithmetic operators overloaded on Signal dom (BitVec N ), these primitives allow com-
plete chip architectures to be described in a single Lean file. The denotational semantics of signals
further enables stating and proving correctness theorems directly in Lean (§4.3), which the PPA
optimization loop (§4.2) relies on to verify that architectural transformations preserve functionality.
Compilation and Verilog Extraction. A central design goal is that the compiler is the verifier: ev-
ery lake build invocation simultaneously type-checks the hardware description, enforces structural
invariants, and extracts synthesizable RTL. Upon success, the #synthesizeVerilog metaprogram
traverses the Signal combinator graph and emits clean SystemVerilog—registers as always_ff
blocks with synchronous reset, combinational logic as assign or always_comb blocks, with clock
and reset signals automatically inserted. The output passes through a Design Rule Check enforcing
backend-friendly RTL conventions, and a TopModule wrapper is auto-generated to map Lean HDL
ports to the benchmark testbench interface for drop-in simulation.
4       Method
We present C KT F ORMALIZER, an end-to-end framework that compiles natural language hardware
specifications into formally verifiable, synthesizable designs by targeting a dependently-typed HDL
in Lean (Figure 2), giving the LLM agent immediate compile-time feedback for iterative refinement
toward correct-by-construction hardware.
4.1 Coding Agent
The coding agent A is an LLM equipped with tool-use capabilities that iteratively writes, compiles,
and debugs Lean HDL code. We instantiate A using Claude with the following components:
Agent Configuration. The agent is initialized with a structured system prompt encoding the
HDL grammar, design patterns, common pitfalls, and a prescribed workflow. It interacts with


                                                                                                                4
the environment through file system operations (read, write, edit, search) and a shell interface
for compilation and simulation. Prior to generation, the agent reviews 10 verified benchmark
implementations as few-shot examples. The agent operates with seven tools: a shell interface for
invoking the Lean compiler and EDA tools, file read/write/edit operations for manipulating Lean
source files, and search utilities (Search, Find, Browse) for locating reference implementations. Each
problem is allocated a fixed turn budget, where one turn corresponds to one LLM inference followed
by tool invocations.
Iterative Compile-Fix Loop. The agent generates an initial Lean implementation from the natural-
language specification, then compiles it via the Lean toolchain. Compilation errors (type mismatches,
undefined identifiers, syntax violations) are parsed and fed back to the agent, which applies targeted
edits to the source. Because Lean HDL is embedded in Lean’s dependent type theory, type errors
signal not only syntactic mistakes but also semantic violations such as width mismatches and invalid
port connections. This is the core insight of our approach: by using a dependently-typed HDL
as the compilation target, we shift error detection from the end of the EDA pipeline (simulation,
synthesis) to compile time, enabling the agent to fix semantic bugs before they propagate into costly
downstream stages. The loop repeats until compilation succeeds or the turn budget is exhausted.
4.2 Power, Performance, and Area Optimization Loop
For designs that pass functional simulation and synthesis, we employ a closed-loop PPA optimization
strategy, a central contribution of this work. Functional equivalence between optimized variants and
the original specification is guaranteed through machine-checked proofs in Lean (§4.3).
Automated Evaluation Pipeline. Once the agent produces a candidate Lean file, the evaluation
pipeline assesses it through a sequence of increasingly stringent checks, each acting as a gate that
filters out a different class of error. Type correctness and Verilog extraction are verified first: a
successful build confirms that the design is semantically well-formed and produces a synthesizable
.sv file. The extracted Verilog is then linted for synthesis-incompatible constructs, simulated against
reference testbenches to verify functional correctness, synthesized to a gate-level netlist, and finally
placed-and-routed to obtain physical PPA metrics. The pipeline is fully automated and containerized;
details are in Appendix A.5.
Architecture Exploration. For designs with a large optimization space, the agent generates C
distinct architectural candidates (default C=3) with different micro-architectural choices (e.g., parallel
vs. serial datapaths, tree vs. chain reduction). Each candidate is evaluated through the full pipeline
and the best selected by PPA metrics. When formal verification is enabled, the agent additionally
produces equivalence proofs between each candidate and the specification (§4.3). By coupling the
LLM agent with quantitative physical design feedback, we transform hardware optimization from a
manual, expert-driven process into an automated, iterative refinement loop. Each iteration proceeds
through five stages: (i) extract PPA metrics from synthesis and place-and-route reports; (ii) construct
a structured feedback message encoding the current metrics, optimization history, and targeted
guidance; (iii) the agent modifies the Lean source to produce an optimized variant; (iv) re-evaluate
the modified design through the full pipeline (compilation → simulation → synthesis → P&R); and
(v) accept or roll back the iteration based on an improvement criterion.
Power, Performance, and Area Metrics. After each synthesis and place-and-route iteration,
the pipeline extracts a comprehensive PPA vector pi = (areai , poweri , WNSi , cellsi ) from the
OpenROAD reports: (i) area is measured in µm2 from the Yosys synthesis statistics, decomposed
into sequential and combinational contributions; (ii) power is reported in µW from OpenROAD’s
power analysis across multiple PVT corners; (iii) Worst Negative Slack (WNS) is extracted from
static timing analysis across slow-slow (SS), typical-typical (TT), and fast-fast (FF) corners: WNS =
minall paths (Trequired − Tarrival ), where WNS ≥ 0 indicates timing closure; and (iv) cell count provides
a proxy for design complexity and routing congestion.
Feedback Construction. At each optimization iteration i, a structured feedback message is con-
structed for the agent containing: (i) the current PPA metrics pi with human-readable formatting;
(ii) the complete optimization history {p0 , . . . , pi } so the agent can identify trends; (iii) a delta
analysis highlighting which metrics improved or degraded relative to the previous iteration; and
(iv) targeted optimization guidance based on the dominant bottleneck (e.g., reducing intermediate
signals for area-dominated designs, or pipelining long combinational paths for timing-critical designs).
This structured feedback transforms raw EDA tool output into actionable intelligence that the LLM
can reason about.
Optimization Procedure. Let pi denote the PPA vector after iteration i. The optimization proceeds
for K iterations (default K=3). At each iteration: (i) the agent resumes from its prior conversation


                                                    5
state with the PPA feedback appended, preserving full context of prior design decisions; (ii) it
modifies the Lean source through common transformations such as replacing parallel datapaths
with serialized versions, merging cascaded multiplexers into lookup tables, eliminating redundant
registers, and restructuring arithmetic expressions to reduce critical path depth; (iii) the modified
design is re-compiled through Lean, ensuring that the optimization did not introduce type errors,
width mismatches, or structural violations—a key advantage over optimizing Verilog directly; and
(iv) the design passes through the full pipeline (compilation → simulation → synthesis → P&R),
producing updated PPA metrics pi+1 .
Acceptance Criterion. An iteration is considered an improvement if any metric improves by >τ
without any metric degrading by >ϵ. Defining the relative change ∆m = (p′m − p∗m )/|p∗m |:
                                 ∃ m : ∆m < −τ ∧ ∀ m : ∆m < ϵ                                            (1)
where p∗ is the global best PPA vector across all iterations. This asymmetric threshold allows
the agent to explore trade-offs (e.g., slightly increasing area to significantly improve timing) while
preventing catastrophic regressions.
Rollback and Termination. If simulation fails after an optimization attempt, indicating the trans-
formation broke functional correctness, the Lean source is rolled back to the pre-iteration version and
the loop continues with the next iteration, rather than terminating early, ensuring the agent explores
the full optimization budget. After all K iterations complete, the globally best design (by PPA) is
restored as the final output. The entire loop is fully automated: no human intervention is required
between iterations.
4.3 Formal Verification and Equivalence Checking
A unique capability of Lean HDL is that hardware designs can be formally verified within the same
language used to describe them. Because signals have a denotational semantics as functions over
time (Signal dom α ≜ N → α), properties and equivalences are stated as standard Lean theorems
and discharged by its proof kernel.
Property and Equivalence Proofs. Design- Table 2: Verification capabilities across three equiva-
ers or the LLM agent can prove behav- lence checking levels. ✓: provable, ✗: not provable,
ioral properties directly over signal defini- △: partially provable (depends on design complex-
tions, such as a counter’s initial value and ity).
increment invariant (Figure 3, top). Given
a specification spec and an optimized im-                Property                     Lean    Yosys    Sim.
plementation opt, the agent can also prove               Bit-width consistency         ✓       —        —
∀ input. opt(input) = spec(input) as a                   No comb. loops                ✓       —        —
                                                         Exhaustive case coverage      ✓       —        —
Lean theorem (Figure 3, bottom). This is used            Comb. functional equiv.       ✓        ✓       △
in the PPA optimization loop (§4.2) and archi-           Seq. functional equiv.        △       △        △
tecture exploration (§4.2), where each trans-            Verilog extraction correct    —        ✓       △
                                                         Multi-clock / async reset     —        ✗       ✓
formation must preserve correctness. Because             Memory / BRAM behavior        —        ✗       ✓
the proof obligation is over the denotational            Timing / gate-level equiv.    —       —        —
semantics of the signals, it covers all inputs           Time complexity             O(p)     O(2n ) O(t · c)
and all time steps, stronger than simulation-            Computational class        Type chk. SAT     Linear
based equivalence checking.
Scope, Limitations, and Synthesis Equivalence. Lean’s simp and decide tactics can automati-
cally discharge equivalences for combinational circuits and simple sequential designs, but complex
FSMs may require manual lemmas that the LLM agent does not always produce correctly. To
complement Lean-level proofs, we employ Yosys equivalence checking, which combines SAT-
based combinational equivalence reduction (equiv_simple) with bounded sequential induction
(equiv_induct) to verify that the generated SystemVerilog matches the VerilogEval reference im-
plementation at the RTL level, closing a gap that Lean-level proofs cannot address: the correctness
of the Verilog extraction backend itself. Table 2 summarizes the verification capabilities across the
three levels. Lean-level proofs provide the strongest guarantees for structural properties (width safety,
loop freedom) and combinational equivalence, but require tactic automation that currently struggles
with complex sequential logic. Yosys equivalence checking complements this by verifying RTL-level
equivalence without requiring proofs, but is limited to designs where bounded induction suffices;
deeply pipelined or memory-heavy designs may produce inconclusive results. Simulation provides
the broadest coverage (including async resets and memories) but only over finite test vectors. Two
additional categories fall outside the current verification scope. First, Lean HDL models signals under
a single synchronous clock domain (Signal dom α ≜ N → α), so multi-clock interactions and


                                                     6
    -- Property proofs: counter initial value and increment invariant
    theorem counter_starts_at_zero :
        (counter.atTime 0) = 0#8 := by rfl

    theorem counter_increments (n : Nat) :
        (counter.atTime (n+1)) = (counter.atTime n) + 1#8 := by
      simp [counter, Signal.register]; rfl

    -- Equivalence proof: optimized implementation = specification
    theorem equiv (input : Signal dom (BitVec 3)) :
        optimized input = spec input := by
      unfold optimized spec; rfl


Figure 3: Formal verification in Lean HDL. Using the counter defined in Figure 1, the top theorems
prove behavioral properties (initial value and increment invariant). The bottom theorem proves
functional equivalence between an optimized implementation and its specification, providing a
machine-checked correctness certificate for all possible inputs.


asynchronous resets lack a formal semantics in the current framework; verifying clock-domain cross-
ings or async reset release timing requires either extending the denotational model to multiple time
bases or relying on simulation and static CDC analysis tools. Second, gate-level and timing-aware
equivalence checking operates below the RTL abstraction: post-synthesis netlist transformations,
cell-level timing arcs, and physical layout parasitics are invisible to both Lean proofs and Yosys
SAT checks, leaving this class of verification to sign-off tools such as gate-level simulation with
back-annotated SDF timing.
5     Experiments
Our evaluation addresses five questions: (1) Can an LLM agent effectively generate hardware through
a type-safe HDL? (2) How does this compare to direct Verilog generation? (3) Do the generated
designs synthesize to physical layouts? (4) Can the PPA optimization loop improve design quality?
(5) Can the agent produce machine-checked equivalence proofs between specifications and optimized
implementations?
5.1 Benchmark
VerilogEval [Liu et al., 2023] comprises 156 HDLBits problems ranging from wire assignments to
complex FSMs, each with a natural-language spec, reference Verilog, and simulation testbench. We
additionally evaluate on RTLLM [Lu et al., 2024] (50 designs covering arithmetic, memory, and
control modules) and ResBench [Guo and Zhao, 2025] (56 problems spanning arithmetic, signal-
processing, control, and datapath designs). All three benchmarks provide reference implementations
and testbenches, allowing us to assess generalization beyond any single task distribution.
5.2 Does a Type-Safe HDL Improve LLM-Generated Hardware?
Table 3 summarizes the end-to-end results on VerilogEval, RTLLM, and ResBench.
Compilation Rate. (i) VerilogEval. C IRC F ORMALIZER achieves a 92.3% Lean compilation rate
(144/156), slightly higher than the direct-SystemVerilog baseline’s 89.7% (140/156). When synthesis
feedback is included in the agent loop, the rate further rises to 99.4% (155/156), indicating that
many residual failures in the plain setting are repairable once synthesis constraints are exposed
during iteration. (ii) RTLLM. C IRC F ORMALIZER compiles 47/50 designs (94.0%), again above
the baseline’s 46/50 (92.0%), suggesting that the type-guided generation pipeline transfers beyond
HDLBits-style tasks to a more heterogeneous RTL benchmark.
Functional Correctness. Designs that compile in Lean survive the backend intact—the baseline
loses 20% of correct designs during synthesis and routing, whereas C IRC F ORMALIZER preserves
all of them. (i) VerilogEval. C IRC F ORMALIZER reaches 72.4% RTL simulation pass rate (113/156),
matching the baseline’s 71.8% (112/156). The synthesis-guided variant attains 69.9% (109/156).
(ii) RTLLM. RTL simulation is lower at 40.0% (20/50) vs. the baseline’s 60.0% (30/50). However,
the designs that do pass are substantially more robust through the backend: C IRC F ORMALIZER
achieves higher gate-level simulation rates than the baseline (GLS-Synth 52.0% vs. 46.0%, GLS-
P&R 50.0% vs. 48.0%) despite having fewer RTL-passing designs. The baseline loses 20% of
its functionally correct designs during synthesis and routing (GLS-P&R/Sim = 48/60), whereas
C IRC F ORMALIZER preserves all of them. This gap arises because directly generated Verilog may


                                                 7
Table 3: End-to-end results on VerilogEval, RTLLM, and ResBench. The baseline generates Sys-
temVerilog directly in a single LLM call. RTLCoder [Liu et al., 2024] is a 7B fine-tuned model;
CodeV [Zhao et al., 2025] is an instruction-tuned open-source model. C KT F ORMALIZER uses itera-
tive compile-fix with Lean type checking; “(synth)” includes Yosys synthesis in the agent loop. All
methods use the same physical design flow (SkyWater 130nm HD). Sim | Comp denotes simulation
pass rate conditioned on compilation. GLS-Synth and GLS-P&R denote gate-level simulation after
synthesis and place-and-route. Avg. PD averages Synth, P&R, DRC, and LVS.
 Method                       Compile   Sim Pass   Sim | Comp   Synth     P&R     DRC      LVS     GLS-Synth   GLS-P&R   Avg. PD
 VerilogEval (156 problems)
 Direct SV                    89.7%      71.8%       80.0%      71.8%    67.9%    67.9%   67.9%     67.9%       65.4%    68.9%
 RTLCoder                     82.1%      43.6%       53.1%      43.6%    42.3%    42.3%   42.3%     43.6%       42.3%    42.6%
 CodeV                        91.7%      42.3%       46.2%      41.7%    40.4%    40.4%   40.4%     41.7%       40.4%    40.7%
 C KT F ORMALIZER             92.3%      72.4%       78.5%      91.0%    91.0%    91.0%   91.0%     71.2%       71.8%    91.0%
 C KT F ORMALIZER (synth)     99.4%      69.9%       70.3%      99.4%    95.5%    95.5%   95.5%     68.6%       66.7%    96.5%
 RTLLM (50 problems)
 Direct SV                    92.0%      60.0%       65.2%      56.0%    56.0%    56.0%   56.0%     46.0%       48.0%    56.0%
 RTLCoder                     70.0%      22.0%       31.4%      20.0%    20.0%    20.0%   20.0%     18.0%       18.0%    20.0%
 CodeV                        80.0%      32.0%       40.0%      32.0%    30.0%    30.0%   30.0%     26.0%       26.0%    30.5%
 C KT F ORMALIZER             94.0%      40.0%       42.6%      94.0%    90.0%    90.0%   90.0%     52.0%       50.0%    91.0%
 C KT F ORMALIZER (synth)     96.0%      54.0%       56.3%      96.0%    96.0%    96.0%   96.0%     52.0%       52.0%    96.0%
 ResBench (56 problems)
 Direct SV                     98.2%     64.3%       65.5%       58.9%    58.9%   58.9%    58.9%    57.1%       57.1%    58.9%
 RTLCoder                      85.7%     51.8%       60.4%       48.2%    48.2%   46.4%    48.2%    48.2%       48.2%    47.8%
 CodeV                        100.0%     50.0%       50.0%       46.4%    46.4%   46.4%    46.4%    46.4%       46.4%    46.4%
 C KT F ORMALIZER              89.3%     60.7%       68.0%       87.5%    87.5%   85.7%    87.5%    58.9%       58.9%    87.1%
 C KT F ORMALIZER (synth)     100.0%     60.7%       60.7%      100.0%   100.0%   98.2%   100.0%    58.9%       60.7%    99.6%




contain constructs that are functionally correct under simulation but fragile under logic optimization
and physical implementation, such as implicit latches from incomplete sensitivity lists, redundant
logic that synthesis tools remove non-equivalently, or timing-sensitive constructs that break under
gate-level delays. Designs that compile in Lean are free of width mismatches, combinational loops,
and incomplete case analysis by construction, making them inherently more resilient to backend
transformations. Despite comparable simulation pass rates (71.8% vs. 72.4%), the type-safe HDL
trades marginal pass-rate parity for substantially stronger structural guarantees: 98.6% of compiled
designs produce physical layouts through the full synthesis and P&R flow, a gap we expect to narrow
as LLMs gain exposure to Lean hardware descriptions. Appendix A.7 gives representative cases for
the remaining simulation failures.
                                                                                 ♦  2
                                                          Area (µm )
Synthesis and Physical Design. A key advantage                   Cells      ♦
of C IRC F ORMALIZER is that compiled designs are         Power (µW)            ♦

immediately backend-ready. (i) VerilogEval. Plain                      10−1 101      103      105

C IRC F ORMALIZER completes synthesis, place-and-
route, DRC, and LVS on 142/156 designs (91.0%), Figure 4: PPA distribution for 112 correct de-
compared to 112/156 synthesized and 106/156 fully signs (log scale). ♦: median; shaded bars:
routed for the direct-Verilog baseline. With synthe- IQR; whiskers: full range.
sis feedback inside the agent loop, C IRC F ORMAL -
IZER (synth) raises these to 155/156 for synthesis and 149/156 for P&R, DRC, and LVS. (ii) RTLLM.
C IRC F ORMALIZER likewise remains substantially more backend-ready, with 47/50 designs passing
synthesis and 45/50 completing P&R, DRC, and LVS, versus 28/50 for all four stages in the baseline.
In every setting, all designs that complete P&R also pass DRC and LVS, indicating clean layouts
with no additional backend failures after routing. Gate-level simulation (Table 3, GLS columns)
further confirms that these designs retain functionality through synthesis and physical implementa-
tion. In-loop synthesis feedback is best viewed as a backend-oriented optimization: it substantially
improves deployability but does not automatically improve functional correctness, as the simulation
rate slightly decreases (72.4%→69.9%).
5.3 Can Type-Safe Designs Close Timing Without Manual Effort?
All designs generated by C IRC F ORMALIZER that pass simulation also achieve timing closure and
produce clean physical layouts, requiring no manual intervention from RTL to GDSII. Figure 4
summarizes the PPA distribution. (i) Timing Closure. All 113 functionally correct designs that
completed place-and-route achieve WNS ≥ 0 ns, confirming timing-clean RTL without manual
optimization. (ii) Area and Power. The wide range in area (3.8–24,711 µm2 ) and power (0.06–
52,500 µW) reflects benchmark diversity: simple combinational circuits occupy under 12 µm2 , while


                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                         100
                                                                                                                                100




                                                  Power Reduction (%)
                1.4                                                                                                                   76.7                       73.3




                                                                                                                Pass rate (%)
                                                                        30                                FSM                                       70         69.6
                                                                                                                                 75                        63.3
                1.2                                                                                                                            50        53.3



    Rel. Area
                                                                        20                                                       50
                 1
                                                                                                    Mux
                                                                                                                                 25
                0.8                                                     10                    Add/Sub
                                                                               Shift
                                                                             Comb.
                                                                                                                                 0
                0.6                                                      0
                      0   1    2    3     4   5                              0   Case-z
                                                                                  10          20   30     40                          CompileSim. Proof Yosys

                              Iteration                                          Area Reduction (%)                                          One-shot       Stepwise


 (a) PPA optimization trajectories.                       (b) Area–power Pareto front.                          (c) Proof-generation ablation.
Figure 5: (a) PPA optimization trajectories over K=5 iterations (relative area, 12 designs). (b) Area–
power Pareto front for architecture exploration candidates with validated simulation. (c) One-shot vs.
stepwise proof generation on a 30-problem VerilogEval pilot.
complex sequential designs require thousands of µm2 . The median area of 55.1 µm2 and median
power of 38.4 µW indicate most designs are compact.
5.4 Can LLM Agents Discover Better Architectures via Synthesis Feedback?
We evaluate architecture exploration on 63 problems,
generating C=4 candidates per design with different Table   2
                                                                 4: Architecture exploration: area
micro-architectural choices (Table 4). (i) Coverage.  (µm     ), cell, and post-route power reductions
Of 63 problems, 27 produced multiple successfully     for  simulation-passing        candidates.
synthesized candidates, providing a meaningful ba- Design              Type     Init. Cand. Area Cell Power
sis for cross-candidate comparison. (ii) Area and
                                                       FSM (Lemmings) Seq.     198.9 128.9 35.2% 35.0% 30.3%
Power. Among these 27 designs, 10 (37.0%) achieved 9-to-1 Mux          Comb. 1,818.0 1,321.3 27.3% 45.9% 14.5%
synthesis-level area reductions exceeding 5%. For the Add/Sub   Unit   Arith.
                                                       FSM Shift Reg. Seq.
                                                                               483.0 399.1 17.4% 26.2% 8.9%
                                                                               131.4 116.4 11.4% 0.0% 7.5%
simulation-passing candidates in Table 4, post-route Case-z Logic      Comb.    83.8    75.1 10.4% 0.0% 2.0%
power reductions range from 2.0% to 30.3%, with the    Comb. Logic     Comb.   226.5 203.9 9.9% 14.8% 6.4%

largest validated area reductions coming from FSM restructuring (35.2%), a hierarchical 9-to-1
multiplexer (27.3%), and add/sub simplification (17.4%). Figure 5(b) shows the area–power Pareto
front for these candidates. (iii) Takeaway. These results demonstrate that when an LLM agent
receives concrete synthesis metrics, it can reason about hardware trade-offs at the architectural
level—discovering structurally distinct implementations rather than merely tuning parameters.
PPA Optimization Loop. We run K=5 PPA optimization iterations on the 63-problem subset. Fig-
ure 5(a) shows area trajectories for the 12 designs (of 29 entering the loop) that exhibited area changes.
(i) Effectiveness. Of 29 designs entering the optimization loop, 7 exceed the τ =5% area-reduction
threshold (best: −26.8% on mux9to1v). (ii) Non-monotonic trajectories. Optimization trajectories
are non-monotonic—Lean’s type system rejects unsafe transformations, limiting the search space but
preventing optimization-induced bugs. (iii) Comparison with architecture exploration. Architecture
exploration (§5.4) yields larger gains by generating fresh candidates unconstrained by incremental
modification. (iv) Feedback granularity. The optimization loop uses Yosys synthesis-level area
and cell count as feedback signals; power estimation requires a full place-and-route run, which is
performed only on the final design (reported in §5.3).
Proof Generation Ablation. Unlike traditional SMT-solver-based equivalence checking, which is
limited to bounded bit-vector reasoning, Lean proofs establish functional equivalence over arbitrary
input sequences and parameterized widths. We run a 30-problem VerilogEval pilot to isolate the effect
of proof-generation strategy. Figure 5(c) compares the two modes. (i) One-shot. The model writes
the implementation, specification, and Lean proof in a single attempt without intermediate proof-goal
feedback. (ii) Stepwise. The model can query Lean proof states and iteratively refine the theorem.
(iii) Results. Stepwise proof development improves all metrics, raising compile pass from 77% to
100%, simulation from 50% to 70%, proof completion from 53% to 63%, and Yosys equivalence
from 70% to 73%. The consistent gains from rich intermediate compiler feedback underscore the
promise of proof assistants as a foundation for hardware formal verification.
6       Conclusion
We presented C KT F ORMALIZER, which compiles natural language hardware specifications into
verifiable designs via a dependently-typed HDL in Lean. Across three benchmarks, Lean-compiled
designs survive synthesis and routing intact (the baseline loses 20%), architecture exploration yields
up to 35% area reduction, and the agent produces machine-checked equivalence proofs. Our results


                                                                                          9
show that dependent types and LLM agents are complementary—formal languages serve as both
generation targets and verification substrates for trustworthy hardware design.




                                           10
References
Tutu Ajayi, David Blaauw, Tuck-Boon Chan, C.-K. Cheng, Vidya A. Chhabria, D. K. Choo,
  M. Coltella, Ronald G. Dreslinski, Mateus Fogac¸a, S. Mehdi Hashemi, A. A. Ibrahim, An-
  drew B. Kahng, M. Kim, J. Li, Z. Liang, Uday Mallappa, Paul I. Pénzes, Geraldo Pradipta, Sherief
  Reda, Austin Rovinski, Kambiz Samadi, Sachin S. Sapatnekar, Lawrence K. Saul, Carl Sechen,
  Vaishnav Srinivas, William Swartz, Dennis Sylvester, D. Urquhart, L Wang, Mingyu Woo, and
  B. Xu. Openroad: Toward a self-driving, open-source digital layout implementation tool chain.
  2019. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:210937106.
Christiaan Baaij, Matthijs Kooijman, Jan Kuper, Arjan Boeijink, and Marco Gerards. Cλash:
  Structural descriptions of synchronous hardware using Haskell. EUROMICRO DSD, pages 714–
  721, 2010.
Jonathan Bachrach, Huy Vo, Brian Richards, Yunsup Lee, Andrew Waterman, Rimas Avižienis, John
  Wawrzynek, and Krste Asanović. Chisel: Constructing hardware in a Scala embedded language.
  In DAC, pages 1212–1221, 2012.
Armin Biere. Bounded model checking. In Handbook of Satisfiability, pages 457–481. IOS Press,
  2009.
Jason Blocklove, Siddharth Garg, Ramesh Karri, and Hammond Pearce. Chip-chat: Challenges and
  opportunities in conversational hardware design. MLCAD, pages 1–6, 2023.
Robert Brayton and Alan Mishchenko. ABC: An academic industrial-strength verification tool. In
  CAV, pages 24–40, 2010.
Andrew Canis, Jongsok Choi, Mark Aldham, Victor Zhang, Ahmed Kammoona, Jason H Ander-
  son, Stephen Brown, and Tomasz Czajkowski. LegUp: High-level synthesis for FPGA-based
  processor/accelerator systems. In FPGA, pages 33–36, 2011.
Kaiyan Chang, Ying Wang, Haimeng Ren, Mengdi Wang, Shengwen Liang, Yinhe Li, Huawei Song,
  and Weikang Li. ChipGPT: How far are we from natural language hardware design. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2305.14019, 2024.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared
 Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, et al. Evaluating large
 language models trained on code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374, 2021.
Joonwon Choi, Muralidaran Vijayaraghavan, Benjamin Sherman, Adam Chlipala, and Arvind. Kami:
  A platform for high-level parametric hardware specification and its modular verification. In ICFP,
  pages 1–30, 2017.
Edmund M Clarke, William Klieber, Miloš Nováček, and Paolo Zuliani. Model checking and the
  state explosion problem. In TACAS, pages 1–30, 2018.
Jason Cong, Bin Liu, Stephen Neuendorffer, Juanjo Noguera, Kees Vissers, and Zhiru Zhang. High-
  level synthesis for FPGAs: From prototyping to deployment. IEEE TCAD, 30(4):473–491, 2011.
Google and SkyWater Technology. The SkyWater open source PDK. https://github.com/
  google/skywater-pdk, 2020. Accessed: 2026-05-06.
Ce Guo and Tong Zhao. Resbench: A resource-aware benchmark for llm-generated fpga designs. In
  Proceedings of the 15th International Symposium on Highly Efficient Accelerators and Reconfig-
  urable Technologies, pages 25–34, 2025.
Warren A Hunt, Matt Kaufmann, J Strother Moore, and Anna Slobodova. Industrial hardware and
 software verification with ACL2. In Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A, volume
 375, page 20150399, 2017.
Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik
  Narasimhan. Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? ArXiv,
  abs/2310.06770, 2023. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:263829697.


                                                11
Mingjie Liu, Nathaniel Pinckney, Brucek Khailany, and Haoxing Ren. VerilogEval: Evaluating large
 language models for Verilog code generation. In ICCAD, pages 1–8, 2023.
Shang Liu, Wenji Fang, Yao Lu, Jing Wang, Qijun Zhang, Hongce Zhang, and Zhiyao Xie. Rtlcoder:
  Fully open-source and efficient llm-assisted rtl code generation technique. IEEE Transactions on
  Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, 44(4):1448–1461, 2024.
Anton Lozhkov, Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Federico Cassano, Joel Lamy-Poirier, Nouamane
 Tazi, Ao Tang, Dmytro Pykhtar, Jiawei Liu, Yuxiang Wei, et al. Starcoder 2 and the stack v2: The
  next generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.19173, 2024.
Yao Lu, Shang Liu, Qijun Zhang, and Zhiyao Xie. RTLLM: An open-source benchmark for design
  RTL generation with large language model. ASP-DAC, pages 722–727, 2024.
Leonardo de Moura and Sebastian Ullrich. The Lean 4 theorem prover and programming language.
  CADE, pages 625–635, 2021.
Rishiyur S Nikhil. Bluespec SystemVerilog: Efficient, correct RTL from high level specifications. In
  MEMOCODE, pages 69–70. IEEE, 2004.
Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, and Ramesh Karri. Dave: Deriving automatically verilog from
  english. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM/IEEE Workshop on Machine Learning for CAD, pages
  27–32, 2020.
Stanislas Polu and Ilya Sutskever. Generative language modeling for automated theorem proving.
  arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.03393, 2020.
Project Oak. Silver Oak: Formal specification and verification of hardware, especially for security
  and privacy. https://github.com/project-oak/silveroak, 2022. Accessed: 2026-05-07.
Baptiste Rozière, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi
  Adi, Jingyu Liu, Romain Sauvestre, Tal Remez, et al. Code Llama: Open foundation models for
  code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12950, 2023.
Shailja Thakur, Baleegh Ahmad, Zhenxing Fan, Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, Ramesh Karri,
  Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, and Siddharth Garg. Benchmarking large language models for automated
  Verilog RTL code generation. In DATE, pages 1–6, 2023.
Shailja Thakur, Baleegh Ahmad, Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, Ramesh
  Karri, and Siddharth Garg. VeriGen: A large language model for Verilog code generation. ACM
  TODAES, 29(3):1–31, 2024.
John Yang, Carlos E Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan,
  and Ofir Press. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering.
  Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:50528–50652, 2024a.
Kaiyu Yang, Aidan M Swope, Alex Gu, Rahul Chalapathy, Peiyang Song, Shixing Yu, Maruan
  Al-Shedivat, Jia Lei, Pengcheng Xia, Graham Neubig, et al. LeanDojo: Theorem proving with
  retrieval-augmented language models. NeurIPS, 2024b.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
  ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. ICLR, 2023.
Yang Zhao, Di Huang, Chongxiao Li, Pengwei Jin, Muxin Song, Yinan Xu, Ziyuan Nan, Mingju
  Gao, Tianyun Ma, Lei Qi, et al. Codev: Empowering llms with hdl generation through multi-level
  summarization. IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems,
  2025.




                                                12
A     Experimental Setup Details

This appendix expands the experimental setup described in Section 5.1. We include the benchmark
composition, model and turn-budget settings, agent tool-use interface, and the fixed evaluation flow
used to compile, simulate, synthesize, and implement generated designs.

A.1   Benchmarks and Task Inputs

We evaluate on three RTL-generation benchmarks. VerilogEval [Liu et al., 2023] contains 156
HDLBits-derived problems spanning combinational logic, sequential circuits, counters, shift registers,
and finite-state machines. RTLLM [Lu et al., 2024] contains 50 natural-language RTL design tasks
covering arithmetic, memory, control, and miscellaneous modules. ResBench [Guo and Zhao, 2025]
contains 56 RTL tasks with arithmetic, signal-processing, control, and application-level datapath
designs. Each benchmark task provides a design description and an evaluation testbench; tasks
also include reference RTL used by the harness for benchmark packaging, comparison, or wrapper
construction when required.
For the C IRC F ORMALIZER runs, the agent generates a Lean HDL implementation for each target
problem and writes it to a task-specific generated source file. The same benchmark testbench is then
used to evaluate the SystemVerilog extracted from Lean. The direct-SystemVerilog baseline uses the
same backbone model but generates SystemVerilog directly in a single pass, isolating the effect of
the Lean HDL target and iterative compile-fix feedback.

A.2   Model and Hyperparameters

All LLM-based experiments use Claude Sonnet 4.5 (claude-sonnet-4-5) with temperature 0.
Unless otherwise specified, each problem is allocated a generation budget of T =80 turns. A turn
corresponds to one LLM inference followed by zero or more tool invocations; therefore, the tool
interface is part of the experimental setup because it defines the agent’s action space and the feedback
channels available during generation.

System Prompt. The agent receives a structured system prompt (∼345 lines) organized into seven
sections summarized in Table 5. When architecture exploration or PPA optimization feedback is
enabled, the prompt is extended with architectural dimensions to explore (parallelism, pipeline depth,
data flow, resource sharing), Lean HDL patterns for each variant, and instructions for writing verified
equivalence proofs using Lean tactics.

Few-Shot Examples. Before generating a target design, the agent can inspect a library of 10 verified
Lean HDL benchmark implementations located in Benchmark/*.lean. These examples cover the
major design patterns (combinational, sequential, FSM) and serve as in-context demonstrations of
correct API usage and idiomatic Lean HDL style.

Feedback Prompts.      Four structured feedback templates guide the agent during iterative refinement:
1. Synthesis feedback — reports the current pipeline status (compile, SV extraction, lint, simulation,
   synthesis) together with synthesis error context (tailed from Yosys/ORFS logs, up to 2,500
   characters), and instructs the agent to edit the Lean source while preserving functional behavior.
2. PPA optimization feedback — presents the current PPA vector (area, cell count, WNS, power),
   a history table of all prior iterations, and an optimization focus (timing closure if WNS < 0,
   area reduction otherwise). The agent is instructed to define both a _spec (original) and an
   optimized variant, prove equivalence via Lean tactics (unfold, ext, simp, bv_omega), and only
   then commit the optimization.
3. Architecture exploration feedback — tabulates all candidates (description, simulation pass, verified
   status, area, cells, WNS, power) and optional area/latency constraints, then suggests architectural
   dimensions to explore (parallelism, pipelining, resource sharing).
4. Direct SystemVerilog feedback — used when optimizing exported Verilog rather than Lean source;
   includes the current SystemVerilog code, PPA metrics, and history, with instructions to preserve
   the module interface and output a complete SystemVerilog-2012 module.


                                                  13
            Table 5: Structure of the C IRC F ORMALIZER agent system prompt (∼345 lines).
  Section                    Content
  Role & Goal                Expert hardware engineer role. Goal: produce Lean HDL that (1) compiles
                             with lake build, (2) generates SystemVerilog via #synthesizeVerilog,
                             (3) passes functional simulation.
  Tool Interface             Seven tools: bash (shell, 120 s timeout), read_file, write_file,
                             edit_file, grep, glob, list_directory.
  File Template              Mandatory      structure:        import CktFormalizer        /
                             import CktFormalizer.Compiler.Elab,                      open
                             CktFormalizer.Core.{Domain, Signal}, function definition with
                             {dom : DomainConfig} implicit, #synthesizeVerilog invocation.
                             Naming: prob<NNN>_<name>.
  Type System & API          Types: Signal dom (BitVec N), Signal dom Bool, product types
                             via bundle2.   Operators: ∼∼∼, &&&, |||, ˆˆˆ, »>, «<, ===, +,
                             -. API: Signal.mux, Signal.register, Signal.loop, Signal.pure,
                             Signal.map, hw_cond. Constants: N#W literals.
  Design Patterns            Five patterns with complete code examples: (1) combinational, (2) sequential
                             feed-forward (register chain), (3) sequential with feedback (counter/FSM via
                             Signal.loop), (4) multi-output (bundle2), (5) FSM with explicit state en-
                             coding (private abbrev).
  Critical Rules             Nine rules: no if-then-else (use Signal.mux); implicit clock (no clk
                             input); Signal.loop must end with Signal.register; Signal.mux true-
                             branch first; multi-output via product types; state abbreviations as private
                             abbrev; use Signal.map for bit extraction; exact bit-width matching; use
                             Signal.circuit with <∼ for imperative style.
  Workflow & Errors          Six-step workflow: (1) read Benchmark/*.lean examples, (2) analyze
                             problem type, (3) write Generated/<prob_id>.lean, (4) lake build to
                             compile, (5) fix errors iteratively via edit_file, (6) verify generated Sys-
                             temVerilog. Common error patterns: type mismatch, unknown identifier,
                             Signal.loop issues, missing open statements, if-then-else usage.
  Architecture Exploration   Architectural dimensions: parallelism (fully parallel / partial / sequential),
  (optional)                 pipeline depth, data flow (systolic / broadcast / streaming), resource sharing
                             (dedicated / time-multiplexed). Lean HDL patterns for each variant. Veri-
                             fied exploration: define _spec + optimized variant, prove equivalence via
                             unfold/ext/simp/bv_omega, fall back to sorry if proof fails.




The concrete prompt templates are instantiated with the current problem ID, evaluator status, and
EDA log excerpts. The boxes below show the exact message structure used by the agent, with runtime
fields shown in angle brackets.


                                                    14
Feedback Prompt 1: Generation-time synthesis repair

## Generation-Time Synthesis Feedback -- Iteration <i>

Your current ‘Generated/<prob_id>.lean‘ was generated and evaluated.
Use the feedback below to repair the Lean HDL implementation so it remains
functionally correct and becomes synthesizable.
Do not do PPA optimization here; only fix synthesizability or any regression
introduced by the previous repair.

### Current status
- compile_pass: <true/false>
- sv_extracted: <true/false>
- lint_pass: <true/false>
- sim_status: <sim_pass/sim_fail/sim_error>
- synth_pass: <true/false>

### Diagnostics
‘‘‘text
<tailed Yosys/OpenROAD synthesis diagnostics>
‘‘‘

### Instructions
1. Read and edit ‘Generated/<prob_id>.lean‘.
2. Preserve the problem behavior and public interface.
3. Use ‘lean_check‘ to verify Lean compilation and Verilog extraction.
4. Keep ‘#synthesizeVerilog‘ on the implementation function.
5. Write the final repaired file. The external evaluator will rerun simulation
   and synthesis.


Feedback Prompt 2: Lean PPA optimization

## PPA Optimization Feedback -- Iteration <i>

Your implementation for ‘<prob_id>‘ passed functional simulation and synthesis.
Now optimize the design for better PPA (Power, Performance, Area).

### Current PPA Metrics
- Area: <area_um2> um^2
- Cell count: <cell_count>
- WNS (worst negative slack): <wns_ns> ns
- Power: <power_uw> uW

### PPA History
| Iter | Area (um^2) | Cells | WNS (ns) | Power (uW) |
|------|-------------|-------|----------|------------|
| baseline | <...> | <...> | <...> | <...> |
| <i> | <...> | <...> | <...> | <...> |

### Optimization Focus
- If WNS is negative, focus on breaking the critical path.
- Otherwise, focus on reducing area and cell count through logic simplification.

### Instructions (Verified Optimization)
1. Read your current ‘Generated/<prob_id>.lean‘.
2. Use ‘lean_proof_step‘ to define both ‘<name>_spec‘ (original) and ‘<name>‘
   (optimized), and note the returned environment number.
3. Use ‘lean_proof_step(env=<env>)‘ to state
   ‘theorem <name>_equiv : <name> = <name>_spec := by sorry‘.
4. Replace ‘sorry‘ with tactics (‘unfold‘, ‘ext‘, ‘simp‘, ‘bv_omega‘) until no
   goals remain.
5. If equivalence cannot be proved, do not optimize; keep the original design.
6. Write the final code and verify with ‘lean_check‘.
7. ‘#synthesizeVerilog‘ must reference the optimized implementation.




                                                  15
 Feedback Prompt 3: Architecture exploration

 ## Architecture Exploration -- Candidate <k>

 Your task: write a COMPLETELY DIFFERENT architecture for ‘<prob_id>‘.
 Do NOT tweak the existing implementation -- write a new one from scratch.

 ### Candidates So Far
 | # | Description | Sim | Verified | Area (um^2) | Cells | WNS (ns) | Power (uW) |
 |---|-------------|-----|----------|-------------|-------|----------|------------|
 | v0 | <description> | <Pass/FAIL> | <Yes/No> | <...> | <...> | <...> | <...> |

 ### Constraints
 - Area budget: <optional budget>
 - Latency budget: <optional cycle budget>

 ### Suggestions
 - If the initial design is combinational, try a pipelined or sequential version.
 - If it uses a flat mux tree, try a hierarchical or encoded approach.
 - Explore a different point in the parallelism/pipeline/resource-sharing space.

 ### Instructions (Verified Architecture)
 Use ‘lean_proof_step‘ to keep ‘<name>_spec‘ as the original implementation and
 write ‘<name>‘ as the new architecture. Prove
 ‘theorem <name>_equiv : <name> = <name>_spec := by ...‘ when possible. If the
 proof cannot be completed, write the new architecture with ‘sorry‘; it will be
 marked unverified but still evaluated by simulation.


 Feedback Prompt 4: Direct SystemVerilog PPA rewrite

 ## Direct SystemVerilog PPA Optimization -- Iteration <i>

 Problem: ‘<prob_id>‘
 Rewrite the current SystemVerilog RTL for better PPA while preserving
 functionality.

 ### Natural Language Spec
 <problem specification>

 ### Current SystemVerilog
 ‘‘‘systemverilog
 <current module>
 ‘‘‘

 ### Current PPA Metrics
 - Area: <area_um2> um^2
 - Cell count: <cell_count>
 - WNS (worst negative slack): <wns_ns> ns
 - Power: <power_uw> uW

 ### Optimization Focus
 - If timing is violated, prioritize a shorter critical path and better WNS.
 - Otherwise, lower area and cell count without breaking functionality.

 ### Output Requirements
 - Keep the module name exactly ‘<module_name>‘.
 - Keep the exact external port interface.
 - Output ONLY the complete rewritten SystemVerilog module.


For PPA optimization experiments, we use improvement threshold τ =0.05, degradation thresh-
old ϵ=0.20 (Section 5.1), and the optimization-iteration budget specified for the corresponding
experiment. Table 6 provides a complete listing.




                                                   16
                  Table 6: Complete hyperparameter listing for C IRC F ORMALIZER.
       Category                            Parameter                                      Value
       LLM Agent
       Backbone model                      claude-sonnet-4-5                                  —
       Temperature                         Sampling temperature                                0
       Max output tokens                   Per-turn token budget                          16,384
       Turn budget (T )                    Turns per problem                                  80
       Few-shot examples                   Verified Lean HDL benchmarks                       10
       API max retries                     Exponential backoff retries                        20
       API base delay                      Initial retry delay                               30 s
       API max delay                       Maximum retry delay                             300 s
       Synthesis Feedback Loop
       Feedback iterations                 Max repair iterations                               2
       Turns per iteration                 Agent turns per repair                             30
       PPA Optimization Loop
       Optimization iterations (K)         Iterations per design                               3
       Turns per iteration                 Agent turns per PPA iter.                          30
       Improvement threshold (τ )          Min. relative improvement                        0.05
       Degradation threshold (ϵ)           Max. relative regression                         0.20
       Architecture Exploration
       Candidates (C)                      Architectural variants                              3
       Turns per candidate                 Agent turns per candidate                          40
       Physical Design (OpenROAD + SkyWater 130nm)
       Technology / PDK                 Standard-cell library                         sky130hd
       Clock period                     Target timing constraint                          10 ns
       Core utilization                 Floorplan utilization                               5%
       Placement density                P&R target density                                 0.15
       Core aspect ratio                Floorplan shape                                       1
       Core margin                      Die-to-core margin                                2 µm
       PVT corners                      SS / TT / FF                                          3
       Evaluation Timeouts
       RTL simulation                      Icarus Verilog timeout                           30 s
       Logic synthesis                     Yosys timeout                                   600 s
       Place & route                       OpenROAD timeout                                900 s
       DRC / LVS                           KLayout timeout                                 300 s
       STA                                 OpenSTA timeout                                 120 s
       Gate-level simulation               Post-synth/P&R sim timeout                      120 s
       Agent Context Limits
       Bash output                         Max shell output                            50,000 B
       File read                           Max file size                              100,000 B
       Diagnostic context                  Error context window                      9,000 chars
       Log tail                            Feedback log tail                         4,000 chars


A.3   Component Ablation on VerilogEval Subset

Table 7 reports a component ablation on a fixed 50-problem VerilogEval subset sampled uniformly at
random without replacement using seed 20260505. The Full row is filtered from an existing backend-
enabled 156-problem VerilogEval run, and the ablation rows are recomputed from per-problem
result records on the same subset. All metrics use the 50 sampled problems as the denominator.
Each ablation row reports the result after removing one component from the full system. Removing
Iterative Repair disables the multi-turn repair loop after the initial Lean HDL generation, so the model
cannot use compiler or evaluator feedback to edit the design. Removing Lean REPL Feedback keeps
the outer generation loop but removes interactive Lean REPL state and proof-goal feedback, leaving
the agent to rely on file edits and batch compiler diagnostics. Removing Few-shot Examples removes
the verified Lean HDL examples from the prompt context and blocks access to the benchmark
example library during generation.




                                                  17
Table 7: Component ablation on the fixed 50-problem VerilogEval subset. Metrics are recomputed
from per-problem JSONL records and reported independently; skipped or missing downstream checks
count as failures under the same 50-problem denominator.
 Removed Component      Compile            Sim.            Synth             P&R            DRC             LVS          GLS-Synth       GLS-P&R
 None (Full)          50/50 (100.0%)   35/50 (70.0%)   50/50 (100.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   34/50 (68.0%)   32/50 (64.0%)
 Iterative Repair      44/50 (88.0%)   22/50 (44.0%)    32/50 (64.0%)   31/50 (62.0%)   31/50 (62.0%)   31/50 (62.0%)   22/50 (44.0%)   21/50 (42.0%)
 Lean REPL Feedback   50/50 (100.0%)   35/50 (70.0%)   50/50 (100.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   34/50 (68.0%)   33/50 (66.0%)
 Few-shot Examples     49/50 (98.0%)   34/50 (68.0%)    49/50 (98.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   47/50 (94.0%)   34/50 (68.0%)   32/50 (64.0%)




A.4     Agent-Callable Tools

Table 8 lists the tools available to the agent-stage model. These tools are not merely implementation
details: they define which repository state the model can inspect, how it can modify source files, and
which compiler or simulator diagnostics can enter the feedback loop during Lean HDL development.




                                                                        18
Table 8: Agent-callable tools available during Lean HDL generation and debugging. The two Lean
REPL tools are available when the persistent Lean server initializes successfully; otherwise the agent
falls back to the filesystem, search, and shell tools.
  Tool                    Category                 Role in the Agent Loop
  bash                    Shell execution         Executes bounded shell commands from the project
                                                  root. The agent uses this interface to invoke project-
                                                  level checks, inspect command output, and run debug-
                                                  ging commands subject to the harness timeout.
  read_file               File access             Reads project files with line-oriented output, enabling
                                                  the agent to inspect benchmark examples, generated
                                                  Lean files, prompts, and diagnostics.
  write_file              File editing            Creates or overwrites project files, most commonly
                                                  the generated Generated/{prob_id}.lean imple-
                                                  mentation.
  edit_file               File editing            Applies a localized edit by replacing one exact string
                                                  with another, supporting surgical fixes after compiler
                                                  or simulator feedback.
  Search                  Search                  Searches file contents with a regular expression, al-
                                                  lowing the agent to find relevant API usage patterns
                                                  and similar Lean HDL examples.
  Find                    Search                  Lists files matching a path pattern, such as benchmark
                                                  implementations or generated design files.
  Browse                  Navigation              Lists files and subdirectories so the agent can discover
                                                  the local project structure.
  lean_check              Lean feedback           Sends Lean HDL code to a persistent Lean 4 REPL
                                                  process and returns errors, warnings, and generated
                                                  Verilog when available. This provides a fast compile-
                                                  feedback path during iterative development.
  lean_proof_step         Formal reasoning        Sends incremental proof attempts to the Lean REPL
                                                  and returns proof states, goals, warnings, and envi-
                                                  ronment identifiers for property or equivalence proof
                                                  development.



A.5      Evaluation Pipeline Details

The evaluation pipeline runs the same ordered checks on each candidate design. For C IRC F OR -
MALIZER , lake build Generated.{prob_id} first verifies Lean type correctness and triggers
Verilog extraction through the #synthesizeVerilog metaprogram. The build output is parsed to
extract the generated .sv file, and a TopModule wrapper is generated when needed to map Lean
HDL port conventions to the benchmark testbench interface. Verilator or Icarus Verilog then performs
an RTL lint check to catch SystemVerilog syntax errors and synthesis-incompatible constructs before
simulation. Functional correctness is evaluated with the benchmark-provided testbench using Icarus
Verilog and vvp; the harness records whether the testbench passes and, when available, the number
of output mismatches.
Designs that pass RTL simulation are sent to the physical-design flow. Yosys synthesizes each design
to the SkyWater 130nm HD standard-cell library (sky130_fd_sc_hd) through the OpenROAD Flow
Docker environment, yielding gate-level netlists and initial area estimates. The synthesized netlist
then undergoes floorplanning, placement, clock-tree synthesis, routing, and finishing in OpenROAD,
producing a GDSII layout. Static timing analysis reports worst negative slack (WNS) across SS/TT/FF
corners, and the backend flow also records power, cell count, DRC status, and LVS status. The
synthesis and P&R stages run inside a Docker container with pre-installed OpenROAD Flow and the
sky130 PDK, which fixes the backend environment across all experiments.

A.6      EDA Tools

The EDA tools in Table 9 are used by the automated implementation and evaluation flow after a
candidate Lean HDL program has been generated. They compile, simulate, synthesize, implement,
and sign off the generated design. When feedback is enabled, the resulting errors, pass/fail signals,


                                                 19
      Table 9: EDA tools used by the automated evaluation and backend implementation flow.
  Tool                      Pipeline Stage                 Role
  Lean 4                    Source compilation             Type-checks Lean HDL and runs the
                                                           #synthesizeVerilog metaprogram to emit
                                                           synthesizable SystemVerilog.
  Icarus Verilog            RTL lint and simulation        Runs iverilog -t null -g2012 for syntax
                                                           checking and iverilog -g2012 for testbench
                                                           compilation.
  vvp                       RTL and gate-level simula-     Executes the simulator output produced by Icarus
                            tion                           Verilog and records testbench pass/fail status or
                                                           mismatch counts.
  Yosys                     Logic synthesis and RTL        Performs synthesis inside the OpenROAD Flow
                            equivalence                    Scripts flow and is also used for RTL equiva-
                                                           lence checks via equiv_make, equiv_simple,
                                                           and equiv_induct.
  OpenROAD Flow             Backend orchestration          A set of scripts that orchestrate the EDA back-
                                                           end flow (synthesis, place-and-route, DRC, LVS)
                                                           inside a Docker container, enabling reproducible
                                                           physical implementation from RTL to GDSII.
  OpenROAD/OpenSTA          Physical implementation        OpenROAD is an open-source digital design im-
                            and timing                     plementation tool; OpenSTA is its static timing
                                                           analysis engine. Together they perform floorplan-
                                                           ning, placement, clock-tree synthesis, routing, fin-
                                                           ishing, and static timing analysis (STA); the evalu-
                                                           ator extracts WNS, power, and PPA metrics from
                                                           OpenROAD reports.
  KLayout                   Physical verification          Runs DRC and LVS checks through the Open-
                                                           ROAD Flow signoff targets.
  Docker                    Reproducible execution         Runs       the     backend      flow     in     the
                                                           openroad/orfs:latest            container      with
                                                           mounted result, log, and report directories.
  SkyWater sky130hd         Technology target              Provides the sky130_fd_sc_hd standard-cell li-
                                                           brary and PDK configuration used for synthesis,
                                                           place-and-route, timing, DRC, and LVS.
  volare                    Cell-model management          Fetches SkyWater standard-cell simulation mod-
                                                           els when gate-level simulation requires local cell
                                                           libraries.
  netlistsvg                Optional visualization         Renders Yosys-generated JSON netlists into
                                                           schematic SVGs for inspection.




and PPA metrics are returned to the agent in later iterations, but the command templates and launch
order are fixed by the harness.



A.7      Error Analysis: Case Study

We manually inspect the 31 VerilogEval designs that compile in Lean but do not pass RTL simulation
in the main run. The boxes below give representative cases with the archived evaluator signal and the
corresponding testbench evidence.
 Case 1: Reset timing – Prob047_dff8ar
 Prompt. Eight D flip-flops with active-high asynchronous reset.
 log: compile=pass, lint=pass, sim=fail, synth/pnr/gds=pass
      44 mismatches in 436 samples
 tb: reset_test(1);
      Hint: reset should be asynchronous/synchronous.




                                                      20
 Case 2: Datapath counter logic – Prob141_count_clock
 Prompt. A 12-hour BCD clock with reset priority, enable gating, carry propagation, and AM/PM rollover.
 log: compile=pass, lint=pass, sim=fail, synth/pnr/gds=pass
      177947 mismatches in 200000 samples
 tb: Hint: reset value / reset priority
      Minute roll-over; Hour roll-over; PM roll-over


 Case 3: FSM corner case – Prob155_lemmings4
 Prompt. A Lemmings FSM with walking, falling, digging, reset, and long-fall splatter behavior.
 log: compile=pass, lint=pass, sim=fail, synth/pnr/gds=pass
      44 mismatches in 1003 samples
 tb: repeat(21) @(posedge clk); // splat after falling left
      repeat(24) @(posedge clk); // long-fall boundary


 Case 4: Interface artifact – Prob099_m2014_q6c
 Prompt. One-hot FSM next-state logic with benchmark-level port-name inconsistency.
 log: compile=pass, lint=pass, sim=error
 tb: Prob099_m2014_q6c_test.sv:71: port ‘Y2’ is not a port of good1.
      Prob099_m2014_q6c_test.sv:71: port ‘Y4’ is not a port of good1.
      Prob099_m2014_q6c_test.sv:77: port ‘Y2’ is not a port of top_module1.


These cases show that the residual failures are not backend failures: the designs either reach physical
implementation and fail the behavioral oracle, or fail at the benchmark harness interface before
simulation can run.

A.8   Example Physical Layouts

Figure 6 shows two raster renderings of OpenROAD-generated GDSII layouts for generated Ver-
ilogEval designs: Prob156 (fancytimer), a multi-output sequential timer with BCD display logic,
and Prob097 (mux9to1v), a 9-to-1 multiplexer with 16-bit datapath. These examples are included as
qualitative illustrations of the layouts emitted by the automated synthesis and place-and-route flow;
quantitative backend pass rates are reported in Section 5.




           (a) Prob156 (fancytimer)                                  (b) Prob097 (mux9to1v)
Figure 6: Raster renderings of OpenROAD-generated GDSII layouts for two VerilogEval designs.


A.9   AXI4-Lite Physical Layouts

To demonstrate that C KT F ORMALIZER scales beyond educational benchmarks to industry-relevant
IP, we generate both sides of an AXI4-Lite bus interface, the ARM AMBA protocol used for register
access in virtually all modern SoCs. AXI4-Lite requires correct multi-channel handshake logic


                                                   21
(AW/W/B for writes, AR/R for reads) with back-pressure and response sequencing; in hand-written
Verilog, missing handshake cases and width mismatches across channels are a common source of
protocol violations. In Lean HDL, the type system statically enforces channel widths and exhaustive
case coverage, eliminating these error classes at compile time.
Figure 7 shows the OpenROAD-generated layouts for the target-side (slave) and initiator-side (master)
modules. Both designs pass the full automated pipeline, from natural language specification through
Lean compilation, SystemVerilog extraction, synthesis, and place-and-route, with zero DRC, setup,
hold, slew, fanout, and capacitance violations, requiring no manual intervention at any stage.




            (a) Target-side module                                (b) Initiator-side module
    Figure 7: OpenROAD-generated AXI4-Lite target-side and initiator-side physical layouts.




                                                 22
                                 C/S 98.7/74.4          C/S 98.1/73.1                  C/S 92.3/72.4




                                 C/S 92.9/69.9          C/S 94.2/66.7                  C/S 92.3/62.8



                                                 pass          fail     C/S = compile/sim




                            Figure 8: Six compact pass/fail dashboards.


B    Compact Result Dashboard
In addition to the aggregate metrics in Section 5, we use compact dashboards to inspect representative
C KT F ORMALIZER runs at problem granularity. As shown in Figure 8, the embedded view keeps only
the audit signals needed for the paper: per-problem simulation outcomes and compact compile/simu-
lation pass-rate summaries. The matrices make it easy to see whether failures are isolated to a few
difficult problems or spread broadly across the benchmark.




                                                           23
