                                         VeriReason: Reinforcement Learning with Testbench
                                         Feedback for Reasoning-Enhanced Verilog Generation


                                                        Yiting Wang1,∗ , Guoheng Sun1,∗ , Wanghao Ye1 , Gang Qu1 , Ang Li1,†
                                              1
                                                  Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Maryland, Maryland, United States
                                                                                  ∗
                                                                                    Equal contribution
arXiv:2505.11849v1 [cs.AI] 17 May 2025




                                                                       †
                                                                         Corresponding author: angliece@umd.edu



                                                                                        Abstract

                                                    Automating Register Transfer Level (RTL) code generation using Large Language
                                                    Models (LLMs) offers substantial promise for streamlining digital circuit design
                                                    and reducing human effort. However, current LLM-based approaches for RTL code
                                                    generation face significant challenges. Methods such as supervised fine-tuning
                                                    (SFT), in-context learning, and chain-of-thought (CoT) struggle with several criti-
                                                    cal limitations in the RTL domain: the scarcity of high-quality training data, poor
                                                    alignment between natural language specifications and generated code, lack of
                                                    built-in verification mechanisms, and difficulty balancing between model general-
                                                    ization and domain specialization. Inspired by groundbreaking research such as
                                                    DeepSeek-R1, which combines reinforcement learning with reasoning capabilities,
                                                    we introduce VeriReason, a comprehensive framework that integrates supervised
                                                    fine-tuning with Guided Reward Proximal Optimization (GRPO) reinforcement
                                                    learning specifically tailored for RTL code generation. Using our curated high-
                                                    quality training examples alongside a feedback-driven reward model, VeriReason
                                                    combines testbench evaluations with structural heuristics to improve specification-
                                                    code alignment and eliminate hallucinations. Iterative GRPO embeds intrinsic
                                                    self-checking and reasoning capabilities, enabling the model to autonomously
                                                    detect and correct functional errors. On the VerilogEval Benchmark, VeriReason
                                                    delivers significant improvements: achieving 83.1% functional correctness on the
                                                    VerilogEval Machine benchmark, substantially outperforming both comparable-
                                                    sized models and much larger commercial systems like GPT-4 Turbo. Additionally,
                                                    our approach demonstrates up to a 2.8× increase in first-attempt functional correct-
                                                    ness compared to baseline methods and exhibits robust generalization to unseen
                                                    designs. To our knowledge, VeriReason represents the first system to successfully
                                                    integrate explicit reasoning capabilities with reinforcement learning for Verilog
                                                    generation, establishing a new state-of-the-art for automated RTL synthesis. The
                                                    models and datasets are available at:
                                                    https://huggingface.co/collections/AI4EDA-CASE
                                                    Code is Available at: https://github.com/NellyW8/VeriReason


                                         1   Introduction

                                         Register Transfer Level (RTL) code generation is a critical yet labor-intensive task in digital circuit
                                         design, directly impacting the efficiency, performance, and power consumption of hardware systems.
                                         Traditionally, hardware engineers manually craft RTL code using hardware description languages
                                         (HDLs) such as Verilog, which differs significantly from general-purpose programming languages
                                         due to its concurrent and structural nature. Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs)
                                         offer promising opportunities to automate RTL code generation, substantially reducing the manual

                                         Preprint. Under review.
effort and domain expertise required. Leveraging LLMs for RTL generation can accelerate design
cycles, minimize human-induced errors, and allow engineers to focus on high-level architectural
decisions rather than intricate coding details.
Despite these advantages, LLM-based RTL synthesis encounters three core challenges. First, data
scarcity: high-quality Verilog examples—and especially paired testbenches or reasoning annota-
tions—are rare, limiting both pretraining and supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and hampering generaliza-
tion. Second, weak natural language–code alignment: LLMs often produce syntactically valid but
functionally incorrect Verilog, misinterpreting user specifications and hallucinating invalid structural
heuristics (e.g., port matching, net connectivity). Third, low first-attempt accuracy without self-
checking: current models lack intrinsic mechanisms to detect or correct their own errors, relying
instead on external testbench or syntax feedback for iterative refinement. Lastly, lack of complex
logical capability: Traditional LLMs struggle to handle the intricate interdependencies between
components in hardware design, often failing to maintain consistency across module interfaces, state
machines, and timing constraints. Without systematic reasoning about component relationships, mod-
els produce circuits with logical inconsistencies or incomplete implementations that meet superficial
requirements but fail under comprehensive verification.
Recent advances in reasoning and reinforcement learning (RL) have introduced promising approaches
to overcome these challenges. Reasoning-augmented models, such as those leveraging chain-of-
thought prompting or iterative refinement, have demonstrated the ability to follow multi-step logical
patterns, making them particularly suitable for hardware description languages like Verilog that
require strict structural correctness and functional dependencies. These reasoning mechanisms
help LLMs better understand circuit intent and adhere to design constraints, and can better ensure
the alignment between natural language and result. Methods such as Guided Reward Proximal
Optimization (GRPO)[16] combine the strengths of SFT with reward-driven RL, enabling models to
learn effectively even with minimal data and explicit feedback. By employing RL-based strategies,
LLMs are trained not merely on predicting the next token but on achieving specific, meaningful
outcomes, thus improving their logical reasoning, alignment, and self-checking capabilities.

Our Proposed Framework. To address the challenges in RTL generation with LLMs, we propose
a novel framework, VeriReason, combining supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and GRPO reinforcement
learning, specifically tailored for Verilog RTL generation with a specially designed dataset featuring
reasoning steps and testbenches. Our approach systematically tackles four critical limitations that
hinder existing LLM-based hardware design methods: data scarcity in domain-specific code, natural
language-code alignment issues, lack of self-checking behavior, and insufficient complex logical
capabilities. Each of these challenges requires specialized techniques that we incorporate into the
VeriReason framework, as detailed in the following sections.
Data Scarcity in Domain-Specific Code: We introduce a reasoning-distillation and testbench-
generation pipeline to augment existing prompt–code pairs with high-quality testbenches and human-
style reasoning steps, producing a high-quality dataset. Furthermore, we demonstrate that even with
as few as 20 annotated examples from the VeriReason dataset, GRPO yields substantial performance
gains, dramatically lowering the bar for required training data.
Natural Language-Code Alignment: VeriReason employ a reward model that evaluates generated
Verilog code against specifications using feedback from structural heuristics. Through GRPO
optimization, the model learns to internalize structural constraints, effectively reducing hallucinations
and ensuring structural correctness by penalizing invalid constructs across both interface definitions
and internal hierarchy of the circuit design.
Lack of Self-Checking Behavior: Our reinforcement learning framework inherently encourages
the model to develop self-checking capabilities by iteratively refining outputs based on testbench
feedback-driven rewards. Over training iterations, the model learns to anticipate and rectify errors
internally, significantly enhancing first-attempt functional correctness.
Lack of complex logical capabilities: VeriReason incorporates explicit reasoning steps throughout
the design process, requiring the model to articulate its design decisions and verify logical consistency
before implementation. By decomposing complex circuit specifications into manageable conceptual
components and reasoning about their interactions, the model develops more coherent and complete
implementations that maintain logical integrity across the entire design.
Our key contributions are summarized as follows:


                                                   2
       • We design a novel framework VeriReason, which integrates supervised fine-tuning with
         GRPO-based reinforcement learning and reasoning-augmented design processes for Verilog
         RTL code generation.
       • Our approach addresses critical shortcomings in RTL generation through a reasoning-
         distillation pipeline for data scarcity, reward-driven structural evaluation for NL-code align-
         ment, testbench feedback mechanisms for self-checking behavior, and explicit reasoning
         steps for handling complex logical dependencies.
       • We create a high quality dataset with reasoning and testbench that would be open-sourced to
         the benefit community.
       • The framework achieves state-of-the-art performance in RTL generation tasks, demonstrating
         substantial improvements in first-attempt functional correctness, structural validity, and
         generalization capabilities with minimal training data. It delivers up to a 2.8× increase in first-
         attempt functional correctness compared to baseline models while outperforming existing
         state-of-the-art methods across multiple benchmarks. This improvement is particularly
         notable in smaller parameter models. Remarkably, the framework achieves 83.1% pass@5
         on VerilogEval-Machine, even surpassing much larger models including GPT-4 Turbo.

2     Background
Recent years have seen a surge of interest in applying large language models (LLMs) to hardware
design, particularly for generating Register-Transfer Level (RTL) code in Verilog.[7, 9, 2, 1, 20,
17, 25, 11, 10, 18, 13, 4]. Previous reseach have shown significant potential for LLM-based RTL
generation in automating parts of the hardware design process using finetuning, or using differnt
prompting techniques. However, it has also revealed several key challenges of produce correct and
efficient hardware designs reliably.

Challenges in LLM-based RTL generation tasks Researchers investigated fine-tuning LLMs
using domain-specific data and techniques to improve their performance [9, 14]. For example, Liu
et.al introduced ChipNeMo [7], which fine-tunes a general-purpose LLM on internal NVIDIA datasets
for various chip design tasks. Similarly, Thankur et.al developed VeriGen [17] to improve Verilog
generation capabilities. Subsequent works, such as RTLCoder [9] is trained based on automatically
generated datasets. BetterV [14], finetunes LLM by converting Verilog code to the C language. While
effective, these methods face challenges of scalability and generalizability due to their high demand
for high quality instruction-code pairs. The inherent limitation of lack of real RTL code and the low
quality of generated code make it hard to make further improvement.
Moreover, LLM generated Verilog code often face the issue of hallucination. Prompt-based methods
[1, 2] rely heavily on the quality and clarity of the input prompts, facing difficulties in consistently
aligning complex, multi-step circuit specifications with the generated code. These methods often
suffer from hallucinations or syntactically correct yet functionally incorrect outputs due to inadequate
contextual understanding. Moreover, they inherently lack iterative refinement capabilities, making
them incapable of progressively improving RTL code quality. Chain of Thought (CoT) methods [24],
which encourage models to generate step-by-step reasoning sequences, typically excel in structured
reasoning tasks but face challenges in RTL contexts due to the strict requirement for functional
correctness and structural precision. Although CoT enhances reasoning, its effectiveness heavily
depends on the clarity and correctness of intermediate reasoning steps, which can still suffer from
errors in the absence of explicit correctness feedback mechanisms. Furthermore, the CoT has made
the process of generation very ineffective due to long inference time.

2.1   Reinforcement Learning for LLM Reasoning

Recent research has demonstrated the potential of reinforcement learning (RL) techniques to signifi-
cantly enhance the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) [12, 16, 5]. By providing
explicit rewards for logical correctness and step-wise reasoning, RL enables models to autonomously
discover effective problem-solving strategies, often mirroring structured human reasoning [21, 23].
Applications span mathematical problem solving (where RL fine-tuning on step-by-step correctness or
final answer accuracy yields substantial improvements [16, 5]) and code generation, where preference
optimization and RL from feedback have led to greater code validity and efficiency [3].


                                                    3
 Prompt                                                                              Test Bench
                               Base Model           Fine-tuned Model                   module tb;
 You are tasked with                                                                   // Inputs
                                                                                       reg [3:0] A;
 designing a Verilog
                                                                                       reg [3:0] B;
 module for a 4-bit                         GRPO Trainer                               reg C;
 adder/subtractor…                                                                     wire [3:0] S;
                            Completions                   Rewards                    Expected Output
                                                 Syntax   Functional Structural
Golden Code w/ reasoning                                                               in     out
    <think> … \<think>                              R1       R2        R3              0000   1000000
    <answer>                                                                           0001   1111001
    module checker (                                                                   0010   0100100
                                                    R1       R2        R3
    input [2:0] data,                                                                  0100   0011001
    output reg parity);
       always @(*) begin
                                                    R1       R2        R3                Policy Model



Figure 1: Workflow of VeriReason. The framework combines supervised fine-tuning with GRPO
reinforcement learning. A base model is fine-tuned and then improved through the GRPO trainer,
which leverages multiple reward signals (syntax, functional, and structural correctness) derived from
testbench execution and code analysis. The model incorporates explicit reasoning (<think> blocks) to
break down complex hardware design tasks.


Most successful approaches build upon policy gradient algorithms such as Proximal Policy Optimiza-
tion (PPO) [15] or, more recently, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) [16, 6]. GRPO, in
particular, compares groups of generated responses rather than evaluating them in isolation, enabling
the model to build a deeper understanding of what constitutes high-quality reasoning through relative
comparisons. The effectiveness of these frameworks depends on carefully designed reward functions
that accurately reflect the target domain. For hardware description tasks like Verilog generation,
structural similarity as provides a clear, unambiguous reward signal [19], encouraging models to
internalize domain-specific constraints and develop robust reasoning capabilities that translate natural
language specifications into golden-code similarity.

3      Methodology

We present VeriReason, a comprehensive framework that combines supervised fine-tuning with
reinforcement learning specifically tailored for Verilog RTL generation. Our approach addresses four
critical challenges in automated hardware design: (1) data scarcity of high-quality RTL examples,
(2) weak alignment between natural language specifications and generated code, (3) lack of self-
checking mechanisms in current models, and (4) insufficient complex logical reasoning capabilities
for hardware design.
As shown in Figure 1, VeriReason employs a multi-stage approach to generate high-quality Verilog
code. First, a base model is fine-tuned on a curated dataset consisting of high-quality prompt-code
pairs enhanced with explicit reasoning steps and testbenches. This fine-tuned model produces initial
code implementations that are then evaluated through our reward system, which combines three
key components: syntax correctness, functional validation via testbench execution, and structural
analysis. The GRPO (Guided Reward Proximal Optimization) trainer leverages these rewards to
iteratively improve the model’s ability to generate correct code while maintaining alignment with the
original specification. Through this process, the model learns to incorporate reasoning steps (shown
as <think> blocks) that decompose complex hardware design problems into manageable components,
resulting in a policy model capable of generating functionally correct and structurally sound Verilog
implementations on the first attempt.

3.1     Reinforcement Learning Framework

Our approach adapts Guided Reward Proximal Optimization (GRPO) specifically for RTL code
generation. Unlike traditional RL methods, our framework incorporates domain-specific constraints
and verification mechanisms directly into the learning process, providing immediate feedback on
functional correctness, syntax, and specification adherence. This targeted optimization enables the
model to efficiently learn correct Verilog implementation patterns while minimizing hallucinations
and specification misalignments.


                                                   4
3.1.1    Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)
We adopt Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) as our core reinforcement learning algorithm
due to its efficiency and demonstrated effectiveness in tasks requiring complex reasoning. GRPO
provides several advantages over traditional reinforcement learning methods like Proximal Policy
Optimization (PPO), including lower memory requirements and more stable training dynamics.
In GRPO, the language model serves as the policy network, taking a natural language specification
q as input and producing a sequence of tokens representing Verilog code as actions. The policy
                                              QN
distribution factors across tokens: πθ (a|q) = t=1 πθ (at |q, a<t ), where πθ represents the policy
parameterized by θ, a is the complete sequence of tokens (the Verilog code), and at is the token at
position t.
Unlike PPO, which requires a separate value function, GRPO estimates advantages using group-based
sampling. For each natural language specification q, we generate a group of G candidate Verilog
implementations {o1 , o2 , . . . , oG } from the current policy and compute rewards for each. The GRPO
objective function is defined as:

                                              "      G
                                                                                                     #
                                                  1 X
LGRPO (θ) = Eq∼D,{oi }G
                      i=1 ∼πθ         (·|q)             min (ri · ρi , clip(ρi , 1 − ϵ, 1 + ϵ) · ri ) −β·DKL (πθ (·|q)∥πref (·|q))
                                old               G i=1
                                                                                                                  (1)
where: where ρi = ππθθ (o(oi |q)
                              i |q)
                                    is the importance sampling ratio, ri is the normalized reward for
                          old
candidate oi , ϵ is a hyperparameter controlling the clipping range, β is a coefficient balancing the KL
divergence penalty, πref is a reference policy (typically the supervised fine-tuned model), and DKL is
the Kullback-Leibler divergence.
The advantage estimation in GRPO is simplified by normalizing rewards within each group, where
ri = R(o i )−µR
        σR +δ , with R(oi ) being the raw reward for output oi , µR and σR are the mean and standard
deviation of rewards within the group, and δ is a small constant for numerical stability.
This group-based normalization provides several benefits: it eliminates the need for a separate value
network, reduces variance in advantage estimation, and naturally compares alternative implementa-
tions of the same specification, which aligns well with the goal of generating functionally correct
Verilog code.

3.2     Reward Model

Our reward function combines both structural correctness and functional validation to provide
comprehensive feedback during training. The reward R for a generated Verilog implementation is
computed as:
                          
                          2.0,                      if functionally correct
                    R(o) = 0.1 + 1.0 · ASTscore (o), if syntactically correct                                     (2)
                          
                           0,                        otherwise

where: Functional correctness is determined by running the generated code through testbenches and
comparing outputs with the expected behavior. Syntactic correctness is verified by successful parsing
of the Verilog code. The ASTscore (o) measures structural similarity between the generated code’s
Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) and reference implementations, with values ranging from 0 to 1.
The AST score provides a fine-grained measure of structural correctness even when the code is not
functionally perfect. VeriReason employs a hierarchicalPAST comparison algorithm specifically
tailored for Verilog code structures, where ASTscore(o) = c∈C wc ·(0.6·simc +0.5·covc −0.3·redc )
calculates weighted structural similarity across categories C = {module, port, always, ...} with
respective importance weights wc . For each category c, we compute sequence similarity simc
using Levenshtein distance, coverage covc = |Gc ∩ Dc |/|Gc | between generated elements Dc and
golden elements Gc , and redundancy redc = |Dc − Gc |/|Dc | to penalize hallucinated structures.
This domain-specific structural analysis enables our model to maintain correct interface definitions,


                                                              5
signal declarations, and control logic while internalizing hardware design patterns during GRPO
optimization.
For functional verification, we use testbenches to evaluate the generated Verilog against reference
implementations. A generated design is considered functionally correct only when it passes all test
cases in the testbench, providing identical output signals to those of the golden reference for all test
vectors.

3.3     Data Preprocessing

We address the critical issue of data scarcity in RTL generation, and the challenge of low dataset
quality through a data augmentation pipelines, and a data filtration pipeline.

3.3.1    Data Filtration
We implement a two-stage adaptive filtration process to optimize the dataset for GRPO training
effectiveness. For each sample s in our initial dataset D, we generate a set of k = 8 candidate
implementations {o1 , o2 , . . . , ok } using our base model and compute their corresponding rewards
{r1 , r2 , . . . , rk } based on our reward function R defined in Equation 2. The filtration process
is formalized as follows: Dfiltered = {s ∈ D | µr (s) ∈ [αmin , αq          max ] and σr (s) > β}, where:
                1
                   Pk                                                        1
                                                                                Pk                  2
µr (s) = k i=1 ri is the mean reward for sample s, σr (s) =                  k     i=1 (ri − µr (s)) is the
standard deviation of rewards, αmin = 0.3 is the minimum acceptable mean reward, αmax = 1.8 is
the maximum acceptable mean reward, β = 0.1 is the minimum acceptable reward variance. This
filtration strategy excludes samples that are either too difficult (consistently low rewards) or too trivial
(consistently high rewards), retaining only those samples that provide meaningful learning signals for
the GRPO algorithm. Specifically, we filter out data where all rewards are zero or the average reward
is below αmin , as well as samples where all generations achieve near-perfect scores.
Additionally, we compute a difficulty score δ(s) for each remaining sample:

                                                     µr (s) − αmin
                                       δ(s) = 1 −                                                       (3)
                                                     αmax − αmin
Samples are then categorized into “simple” and “hard” portions based on this difficulty score, with
samples where δ(s) > 0.5 classified as “hard” and the remainder as “simple.” This stratification
enables targeted training strategies that progressively build model competence. The final dataset
comprises 1149 samples in the hard level and 743 samples in the easy level.

3.3.2    Reasoning Generation with Optimization
To enhance the model’s reasoning capabilities, we augment the training data with explicit reason-
ing steps that decompose complex hardware design problems into manageable components. Our
reasoning generation pipeline extracts natural language specifications and corresponding Verilog
implementations from the original dataset and uses chain-of-thought prompting with domain-specific
guidance to generate detailed reasoning steps that explain the design choices, module interfaces, and
implementation details. We apply an optimization process where the model is encouraged to critique
its own reasoning and suggest improvements. When the model identifies a better alternative solution,
we generate an improved implementation and incorporate it into the dataset. This self-improvement
mechanism enables the model to iteratively refine both its reasoning process and the quality of
generated code. The resulting dataset contains not only input-output pairs but also explicit reasoning
traces that guide the model to develop stronger internal reasoning capabilities.

3.3.3    Testbench Generation
To provide reliable functional correctness signals during training, we develop an automated testbench
generation pipeline. The pipeline analyzes the input-output specifications to identify signal char-
acteristics, boundary conditions, and expected behaviors. It generates comprehensive testbenches
covering both typical and edge cases, applying multiple test vector generation strategies, including
directed testing for explicit requirements and constrained random testing for broader coverage. For
each specification, our system generates at least 100 diverse test vectors to ensure adequate functional


                                                     6
coverage and validates testbenches by confirming they correctly identify known-good and known-bad
implementations. The generated testbenches are used both for reward computation during reinforce-
ment learning and for final validation of model outputs. This approach ensures that the model learns
to produce not just syntactically correct but functionally valid Verilog implementations aligned with
the original specifications.
The combination of these data augmentation techniques with GRPO-based reinforcement learning
creates a powerful framework for RTL generation that addresses the challenges of data scarcity,
weak natural language-code alignment, and lack of self-checking behaviors. By encoding hardware
design best practices through both structural and functional rewards, VeriReason enables the model to
internalize domain-specific constraints and develop robust reasoning capabilities for RTL synthesis.


4     Experiments

4.1   Experimental Setup

Our primary dataset is derived from the RTLCoder [9] dataset of 26500 samples. We apply a thorough
filtration technique on the dataset. First, we apply a simple syntax check to ensure we keep only the
syntactically valid code. Then we use ChatGPT-4.1 to check whether the code matches the input
prompt correctly, and generate reasoning steps for the code. For code that does not fully match the
input prompt, it is re-generated and checked for syntax. We then generate a testbench for each entry
with at least 100 test cases for best coverage.
The testbench output is also saved to the dataset; in this way, during the GRPO, the testbench will
only run once on the generated code, and the outcome will be directly compared to the golden code’s
output. Next, we run the dataset on the Qwen2.5B model to generate the code and its corresponding
rewards. Based on the reward, we split the dataset into simple and hard portions for the next training
steps. We end up with 1149 samples in the hard level and 743 samples in the easy level.
Our evaluation focuses on the primary benchmarks for Verilog code generation, VerilogEval [8]. The
comprehensive benchmark containing both machine-generated and human-crafted Verilog specifi-
cations. VerilogEval-Machine contains 143 samples with algorithmically generated specifications,
while VerilogEval-Human includes 156 samples with human-written specifications.
We evaluate VeriReason across multiple model scales to assess parameter efficiency, including
Qwen2.5-1.5B, Qwen2.5-3B, Qwen2.5-7B, and CodeLlama3-7B architectures. GRPO is used as our
default RL algorithm. RL-specific settings include a generation temperature of 0.5, a total batch size
of 16 (8 rollouts each), an update batch size of 2 per GRPO step with a gradient accumulation of 8, a
lowered learning rate of 1.0e-6 with constant scheduler type, and repetition penalty of 1.3. The reward
model follows the design in Equation 2, with execution correctness verified using industry-standard
Verilog simulators, Iverilog [22].

4.2   Main Results

Table 1 compares VeriReason against state-of-the-art Verilog generation models. Our approach
achieves superior performance across all model sizes, with VeriReason-Qwen2.5-7B demonstrating
remarkable gains over base models: +17.1 and +24.0 percentage points on pass@1 for VerilogEval-
Machine and VerilogEval-Human, respectively.
Even our smallest model, VeriReason-Qwen2.5-1.5B, outperforms many larger models after applying
our reinforcement learning framework. The performance gains are particularly notable for smaller
models, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach in optimizing parameter efficiency. We
observe that VeriReason-Qwen2.5-7B achieves state-of-the-art performance on Machine pass@5
(83.1%), outperforming even GPT-4-Turbo on this metric, despite having significantly less parameters.
Furthermore, all VeriReason models establish themselves as the best performers in their respective
parameter size categories (1.5B, 3B, and 7B), highlighting the robustness of our approach across
model scales. The substantial improvements observed in VeriReason-codeLlama-7B (+25.2 percent-
age points in Machine pass@1) further demonstrates that our method generalizes effectively across
different model architectures.


                                                  7
Table 1: Comparative analysis of Verilog code generation performance. Gray highlighting denotes
the overall state-of-the-art results. (bold) indicates the best results in the model size category. Color-
coded numbers show performance deltas relative to base models (green: improvement).

                                                                                                                   VerilogEval-Machine           VerilogEval-Human
 Category                                     Method                            Params.          Open Source
                                                                                                                   pass@1       pass@5           pass@1       pass@5
                                              GPT-3.5-Turbo                     N/A                  ✗               63.5         78.0             31.2           47.0
                                              GPT-4o-mini                       N/A                  ✗               66.0         72.4             54.2           62.0
                                              GPT-4-Turbo                       N/A                  ✗               72.5         83.0             64.3           76.1
                                              Qwen-2.5-Coder                    1.5B                 ✓               25.6         40.8              8.3           17.9
 Base Model
                                              Qwen2.5-Coder                     3B                   ✓               48.4         58.9             21.3           32.7
                                              Qwen2.5-Coder                     7B                   ✓               52.7         69.7             23.9           41.1
                                              CodeLlama                         7B                   ✓               26.1         49.1             18.8           28.6
                                              CodeQwen1.5-7B-Chat               7B                   ✓               29.1         61.9             14.8           36.8
                                              DeepSeek-Coder                    6.7B                 ✓               8.8          34.3              4.9           19.3
                                              DeepSeek-V3                       671B                 ✓               79.2         80.7             66.1           72.1
                                              ChipNeMo†                         70B                  ✗               53.8         N/A              27.6           N/A
                                              BetterV-CodeQwen†                 7B                   ✗               68.1         79.4             46.1           53.7
 Fine-tuned Generation                        RTLLLM†                           13B                  ✗               65.3         77.2             43.7           51.8
                                              VerilogEval†                      16B                  ✗               46.2         67.3             28.8           45.9
                                              VeriGen†                          16B                  ✓               44.0         52.6             30.3         43.9
                                              RTLCoder-DeepSeek-Coder           6.7B                 ✓             37.2+28.4    64.9+30.6        16.9+12.0    35.7+16.4
                                              VeriReason-Qwen2.5-1.5B           1.5B                 ✓             44.7+19.1    49.1+8.3         23.5+15.2    26.7+8.8
                                              VeriReason-Qwen2.5-3B             3B                   ✓             55.9+7.5     72.8+13.9        33.2+11.9    47.4+14.7
 VeriReason (Ours)
                                              VeriReason-Qwen2.5-7B             7B                   ✓             69.8+17.1    83.1+13.4        47.9+24.0    58.4+17.3
                                              VeriReason-codeLlama-7B           7B                   ✓             51.3+25.2    64.0+14.9        27.5+8.7     39.9+11.3
 †
     : Reported Results.




4.3       Training Dynamics Analysis

Figure 2 illustrates the training dynamics of our VeriReason models across three different parameter
scales (1.5B, 3B, and 7B). We track both the mean reward values (top row) and their standard
deviations (bottom row) throughout the reinforcement learning process.

4.3.1                   Reward Progression

The reward curves reveal distinct learning patterns across model sizes. The 1.5B model demonstrates
steady, monotonic improvement in reward values from approximately 0.5 to 0.8 over 800 training
steps, suggesting a consistent optimization path. In contrast, the 3B model exhibits higher variance
in its learning trajectory, with reward values fluctuating between 0.6 and 0.8, before ultimately
converging to above 0.8 by step 400. The 7B model shows the most pronounced oscillatory behavior,
with rewards ranging between 0.50 and 0.65, reflecting the increased complexity of optimizing larger
parameter spaces.

                                              1.5B                                            3B                                            7B
                              0.8
                                                                                                                     0.60
         Reward




                              0.7                                     0.8
                                                                                                                     0.55
                              0.6
                                                           Rewards    0.6                                Rewards                                        Rewards
                              0.5                                                                                    0.50
                                    0   200    400      600     800         0    100       200     300     400              0    25         50         75     100
                                                                                                                     0.14
         Standard Deviation




                              0.3                      Reward STD     0.9                           Reward STD                                      Reward STD

                              0.2                                     0.8                                            0.12

                              0.1                                     0.7                                            0.10

                                    0   200    400      600     800         0    100       200     300     400              0    25         50         75     100
                                          Training Steps                               Training Steps                                 Training Steps

                                                     Figure 2: Reward line and std line of VeriReason



                                                                                          8
4.3.2   Reward Stability

The standard deviation plots (bottom row) provide critical insights into training stability. The
1.5B model demonstrates exceptional convergence properties, with reward variability consistently
decreasing from 0.3 to below 0.1 throughout training. This smooth reduction in standard deviation
correlates with the steady increase in mean rewards, indicating robust learning. The 3B model presents
a more complex pattern, with initial rapid variability reduction followed by fluctuations between 0.7
and 0.8, suggesting periodic exploration-exploitation transitions. The 7B model’s standard deviation
exhibits the most dynamic behavior, oscillating between 0.09 and 0.14, which aligns with its more
variable reward progression.
Interestingly, despite having fewer parameters, the 1.5B model achieves the most stable convergence
pattern, with monotonically decreasing standard deviation. This suggests that smaller models may
benefit more consistently from our reinforcement learning framework, while larger models engage in
more extensive exploration of the parameter space before convergence. The final standard deviation
values (approximately 0.05 for 1.5B, 0.8 for 3B, and 0.1 for 7B) indicate that all models eventually
reach stable policy configurations, though with different convergence trajectories.
This analysis provides empirical evidence that our reinforcement learning approach effectively
optimizes models across different parameter scales, with larger models requiring more complex
optimization paths but ultimately achieving higher reward values, consistent with their superior
performance on the VerilogEval benchmarks shown in Table 1.

4.3.3   The effect of SFT and GRPO

Table 2 presents a systematic analysis of how
each training component—Supervised Fine-
Tuning (SFT) and Group Relative Policy Opti-                   Table 2: Ablation studies results.
                                                                                 VerilogEval-Machine VerilogEval-Human
mization (GRPO)—contributes to VeriReason’s Model                 Training Stage
                                                                                 pass@1     pass@5   pass@1     pass@5
performance across different model sizes. The                     Base            25.6        40.8     8.2       17.9
results demonstrate that SFT provides substan- Qwen2.5-1.5B + SFT                 38.6        46.3    17.8       23.9
                                                                  + GRPO          44.7        49.1    23.5       26.7
tial initial performance gains across all model                   Base            48.4        58.9    21.3       32.7
architectures, with smaller models showing the      Qwen2.5-3B    + SFT
                                                                  + GRPO
                                                                                  51.9
                                                                                  55.9
                                                                                              69.9
                                                                                              72.8
                                                                                                      31.3
                                                                                                      33.2
                                                                                                                 45.1
                                                                                                                 47.4
most dramatic relative improvements. This sug-                    Base            52.7        69.7    23.9       41.1
gests that SFT effectively addresses the chal- Qwen2.5-7B ++ SFT    GRPO
                                                                                  63.4
                                                                                  69.8
                                                                                              79.9
                                                                                              83.1
                                                                                                      43.4
                                                                                                      47.9
                                                                                                                 56.2
                                                                                                                 58.4
lenge of limited domain knowledge by provid-                      Base            26.1        49.1    18.8       28.6
ing high-quality training examples with explicit CodeLlama-7B ++ SFTGRPO
                                                                                  41.1
                                                                                  51.3
                                                                                              58.3
                                                                                              64.0
                                                                                                      23.2
                                                                                                      27.5
                                                                                                                 31.5
                                                                                                                 39.9
reasoning steps. The addition of GRPO further
enhances performance across all models and
benchmarks, demonstrating the value of reinforcement learning with testbench feedback. This syner-
gistic relationship shows that while SFT provides the foundation for understanding Verilog syntax
and semantics, GRPO enhances the model’s ability to produce functionally correct implementations
by internalizing structural constraints and developing self-checking capabilities.


5    Conclusion

This paper presents VeriReason, a comprehensive framework integrating supervised fine-tuning with
GRPO-based reinforcement learning for Verilog RTL generation. By combining explicit reasoning
with testbench-driven feedback, our approach addresses key challenges in LLM-based hardware
design: data scarcity, weak language-code alignment, lack of self-checking behavior, and insufficient
logical reasoning. While VeriReason achieves state-of-the-art performance across model scales,
the approach incurs significant computational overhead during both training (requiring numerous
testbench evaluations per iteration) and inference (where reasoning steps increase generation time
by 2.5-3×). Despite these limitations, the consistent improvements across different architectures
demonstrate our method’s robustness and transferability. Our reward model’s integration of structural
correctness and functional validation encourages models to develop intrinsic self-checking capabili-
ties—a crucial advancement for autonomous hardware design. By open-sourcing our models and
datasets, we aim to accelerate progress in LLM-based hardware design, transform digital circuit
development practices, and inspire future work on computational efficiency.


                                                          9
References
 [1] Jason Blocklove, Siddharth Garg, Ramesh Karri, and Hammond Pearce. Chip-chat: Challenges
     and opportunities in conversational hardware design. In 5th ACM/IEEE Workshop on Machine
     Learning for CAD, MLCAD. IEEE, 2023.
 [2] Kaiyan Chang, Ying Wang, Haimeng Ren, Mengdi Wang, Shengwen Liang, Yinhe Han, Huawei
     Li, and Xiaowei Li. Chipgpt: How far are we from natural language hardware design. CoRR,
     abs/2305.14019, 2023.
 [3] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared
     Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, et al. Evaluating large
     language models trained on code. arXiv, 2107.03374, July 2021.
 [4] Yonggan Fu, Yongan Zhang, Zhongzhi Yu, Sixu Li, Zhifan Ye, Chaojian Li, Cheng Wan,
     and Yingyan Celine Lin. GPT4AIGChip: Towards Next-Generation AI Accelerator Design
     Automation via Large Language Models. arXiv, 2309.10730, September 2023. Accepted by
     ICCAD 2023.
 [5] Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu,
     Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in
     llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv, 2501.12948, January 2025.
 [6] Nathan Lambert, Salman Khan, Sunabha Chatterjee, Shandong Wu, William Mitchell, Yuntian
     Deng, Hang Gao, Saurav Pahadia, Roshni Sahoo, Xuechen Li, Anca Dragan, and Jacob
     Steinhardt. Reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards: Grpo’s effective loss, dynamics,
     and success amplification. arXiv, 2503.06639, March 2024.
 [7] Mingjie Liu, Teodor-Dumitru Ene, Robert Kirby, Chris Cheng, Nathaniel Ross Pinckney,
     Rongjian Liang, Jonah Alben, Himyanshu Anand, Sanmitra Banerjee, Ismet Bayraktaroglu,
     Bonita Bhaskaran, Bryan Catanzaro, Arjun Chaudhuri, Sharon Clay, Bill Dally, Laura Dang,
     Parikshit Deshpande, Siddhanth Dhodhi, Sameer Halepete, Eric Hill, Jiashang Hu, Sumit Jain,
     Brucek Khailany, Kishor Kunal, Xiaowei Li, Hao Liu, Stuart F. Oberman, Sujeet Omar, Sreedhar
     Pratty, Jonathan Raiman, Ambar Sarkar, Zhengjiang Shao, Hanfei Sun, Pratik P. Suthar, Varun
     Tej, Kaizhe Xu, and Haoxing Ren. Chipnemo: Domain-adapted llms for chip design. CoRR,
     abs/2311.00176, 2023.
 [8] Mingjie Liu, Nathaniel Ross Pinckney, Brucek Khailany, and Haoxing Ren. Invited paper:
     Verilogeval: Evaluating large language models for verilog code generation. In IEEE/ACM
     International Conference on Computer Aided Design, ICCAD. IEEE, 2023.
 [9] Shang Liu, Wenji Fang, Yao Lu, Jing Wang, Qijun Zhang, Hongce Zhang, and Zhiyao Xie.
     Rtlcoder: Fully open-source and efficient llm-assisted rtl code generation technique. IEEE
     Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, 2024.
[10] Shang Liu, Wenji Fang, Yao Lu, Jing Wang, Qijun Zhang, Hongce Zhang, and Zhiyao Xie.
     Rtlcoder: Fully open-source and efficient llm-assisted rtl code generation technique, 2024.
[11] Yao Lu, Shang Liu, Qijun Zhang, and Zhiyao Xie. Rtllm: An open-source benchmark for
     design rtl generation with large language model. In Proceedings of the 29th Asia and South
     Pacific Design Automation Conference, ASPDAC ’24. IEEE Press, 2024.
[12] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin,
     Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to
     follow instructions with human feedback. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
     35:27730–27744, 2022.
[13] Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, and Ramesh Karri. Dave: Deriving automatically verilog
     from english. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM/IEEE Workshop on Machine Learning for CAD,
     pages 27–32, 2020.
[14] Zehua Pei, Hui-Ling Zhen, Mingxuan Yuan, Yu Huang, and Bei Yu. Betterv: Controlled verilog
     generation with discriminative guidance. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine
     Learning, ICML. OpenReview.net, 2024.


                                               10
[15] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal
     policy optimization algorithms. arXiv, 1707.06347, July 2017.
[16] Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang,
     Mingchuan Zhang, YK Li, Y Wu, and Daya Guo. Deepseekmath: Pushing the limits of
     mathematical reasoning in open language models. arXiv, 2402.03300, February 2024.
[17] Shailja Thakur, Baleegh Ahmad, Hammond Pearce, Benjamin Tan, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt,
     Ramesh Karri, and Siddharth Garg. Verigen: A large language model for verilog code generation.
     ACM Trans. Design Autom. Electr. Syst., 2024.
[18] Yunda Tsai, Mingjie Liu, and Haoxing Ren. Rtlfixer: Automatically fixing RTL syntax
     errors with large language model. In Proceedings of the 61st ACM/IEEE Design Automation
     Conference, DAC. ACM, 2024.
[19] Ning Wang, Bingkun Yao, Jie Zhou, Xi Wang, Zhe Jiang, and Nan Guan. Large language model
     for verilog generation with code-structure-guided reinforcement learning, 2025.
[20] Yiting Wang, Wanghao Ye, Ping Guo, Yexiao He, Ziyao Wang, Yexiao He, Bowei Tian, Shwai
     He, Guoheng Sun, Zheyu Shen, Sihan Chen, Ankur Srivastava, Qingfu Zhang, Gang Qu, and
     Ang Li. Symrtlo: Enhancing rtl code optimization with llms and neuron-inspired symbolic
     reasoning, 2025.
[21] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi,
     Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language
     models. arXiv, 2201.11903, January 2022.
[22] Stephen Williams. The icarus verilog compilation system. [Online], 2023. Available: https:
     //github.com/steveicarus/iverilog.
[23] Tian Xie, Zitian Gao, Qingnan Ren, Haoming Luo, Yuqian Hong, Bryan Dai, Joey Zhou,
     Kai Qiu, Zhirong Wu, and Chong Luo. Logic-rl: Unleashing llm reasoning with rule-based
     reinforcement learning. arXiv, 2504.04253, April 2025.
[24] Yiyao Yang, Fu Teng, Pengju Liu, Mengnan Qi, Chenyang Lv, Ji Li, Xuhong Zhang, and Zhezhi
     He. Haven: Hallucination-mitigated llm for verilog code generation aligned with hdl engineers,
     2025.
[25] Ruizhe Zhong, Xingbo Du, Shixiong Kai, Zhentao Tang, Siyuan Xu, Hui-Ling Zhen, Jianye
     Hao, Qiang Xu, Mingxuan Yuan, and Junchi Yan. Llm4eda: Emerging progress in large
     language models for electronic design automation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.12224, 2023.




                                                11
